6 LIFE AND CHARACTER OF CHARNOCK.
his ministry there, it was not altogether without fruit. He who had
made the student himself, while yet young, the subject of saving
operations, was pleased also to give efiicacy to the Hrst efforts of the
youthful pastor to win souls to Christ. Several individuals in this
his first charge were led to own him as their spiritual father. Nor is
this a solitary instance of the early ministry of an individual receiv-
ing that countenance from on high which has been withheld from
the labors of his riper years. A circumstance this, full of encoiuage-
ment to those who, in the days of youth, are entering with much
fear and trembling on service in the Lord’s vineyard. .At the time
when they may feel impelled to exclaim with most vehemence, Wim
119 sujicienifrr these things? God may cheer them with practical con-
firmations of the truth, that their wjicwkncy is cf God.
In 1649, Charnock removed from Southwark to Oxford, where,
through favor of the Parliamentary Visitors, he obtained a fellowship
in New College; and, not long afterwards, in consequence of his
own merits, was incorporated Master of Arts. His singular gifts,
and imwearied exertions, so attracted the notice and gained the
approbation of the learned and pious members of the University,
that, in 1652, he was elevated to the dignity of Senior Proctor,-an
oiiice which he continued to hold till 1656, and the duties of which
he discharged in a way which brought equal honor to himself and
benefit to the community.
When the period of his proctorship expired, he went to Ireland,
where he resided in the family of Mr. Henry Cromwell, who had
been appointed by his father, the Protector, to the government of
that country. It is remarkable how many of the eminent divines,
both of England and Scotland, have spent some part of their time
in Ireland, either as chaplains to the army or as refugees from perse-
cuting bigotry. Charnock seems to have gone thither in the capa-
city of chaplain to the Governor, an office which, in his case at least,
proved no sinecure. During his residence in Dublin, he appears to
have exercised his ministry with great regularity and zeal. He
preached, we are told, every Lord’s day, with much acceptance, to
an audience composed of persons of diH`erent religious denominations,
and of opposite grades in society. His talents and worth attracted
the members of other churches, and his connection with the family
of the Governor secured the attendance of persons of rank. By
these his ministrations were greatly esteemed and applauded; and it
is hoped that to some of them they were also blessed. But even
many who had no respect for his piety, and who reaped no saving
benefits from his preaching, were unable to withhold their admiration

