LIFE AND CHARACTER OF CHARNOCK. 7
of his learning and his gifts. Studying at once to be an “ensample
to the flock,” and to “walk within his house with a perfect heart,”
his qualities, both public and private, his appearances, whether in
the pulpit or the domestic circle, commanded the esteem of all who
were privileged to form his acquaintance. It is understood that the
honorary degree of Bachelor in Divinity, which he held, was the
gift of 'I‘rinity College, Dublin, conferred during his residence in
that city.
The restoration of Charles, in 1660, put an end to Charnock’s
  in Ireland, and hindered his resuming it elsewhere for a
considerable time. That event, leading, as it could not but do, to
the re-establishment of arbitrary power, was followed, as a natural
consequence, by the ejectment of many of the most godly ministers
that ever lived. Among these was the excellent individual of whom
we are now speaking. Accordingly, although on his return to Eng-
land he took up his residence in London, he was not permitted to
hold any pastoral charge there. Nevertheless, he continued to prose-
cute his studies with a.rdor, and occasionally exercised his   in a
private way for fifteen years, during which time he paid some visits
to the continent, especially to France and Holland.
At length, in 1675, when the restrictions of the government were
so far relaxed, he accepted a call from a. congregation in Crosby
Square, to become co-pastor with the Rev. Thomas Watson, the
ejected minister of St. Stephen’s, Walbrook, who, soon after the Act
of Uniformity, had collected a church in that place. Mr. Watson
was an eminent Presbyterian divine, and the society which he was
instrumental in founding became afterwards, under the ministry of
Dr. Grosvenor, one of the most flourishing in the city, in respect
both of numbers and of wealth. It may not be uninteresting here to
insert a few brief notices respecting the place of worship which this
congregation occupied, being the scene of Charnock’s labors during
a principal part of his ministry, and that in connection with which
he closed his oiiicial career.
The place in which this humble Presbyterian congregation” assem-
bled was a large hall of Crosby House, an ancient mansion on the
east side of Bishopgate Street, erected by Sir John Crosby, Sheriff
and Alderman of London, in 1470. After passing through the hands
of several occupants, and, among others, those of Richard III., who
thought it not unfit for being a royal residence, it became, about the
' The Society which met in Crosby Hall has been represented as a. congregational
:lnrrch ; but Wilson, in his History of Dissenting Churches, repeatedly speaks of it as
Pmbyz.-fam-Vid¢ v. i. p. sso.

