8 LIFE AND CHARACTER, OF OHABNOGK.
year 1640, the property of Alderman Sir John Langham, a staunch
Presbyterian and Loyalist.. Acalamitous fire afterwards so injured
the building, as to render it immutable for at familylresidence; but
the hall, celebrated for its magnificent oaken ceiling, happily  
the conilagrationf and was converted into ameeting-house for Mr.
<Watson’s congregation, of which the proprietor is supposed to have
been a. member. The structure, though greatly dilapidated; still
exists, and is said to be regarded as one of the most perfect specimens
of the domestic architecture of the fifteenth century now remaining
in the metropolis. But, as. an illustration of the vicissitudes such
ediiices are destined to undergo, it may be stated that Crosby Hall,
after having witnessed the splendors of royalty, and been consecrated
to the solemnities of divine worship, was lately--perhaps it is still-
dedicated to the inferior, if not ignoble, uses of a wool-packer.
After saying so much about the building, a word or two respecting
the congregation which assembled for years under its vaulted root;
may not be deemed inappropriate. It was formed, as we have already
said, by the Rev. Thomas Watson, the ejected minister of St. Stephen’s,
Walbrook. This took plana in 1662, and Charnock was Mr. Watson’s
colleague for five years. Mr. Watson was succeeded by the son of an
ejected minister, the Rev. Samuel Slater, who discharged the pastoral
duties with great ability and faithfulness for twenty-four years, and
closed his minist1'y and life with this solemn patriarchal sentence
addressed to his people :-“ I charge you before God, that you pre-
pare to meet me at the day of judgment, as my crown of joy; and
that not one of you be wanting at the right hand of God.” Dr.
Benjamin Grosvenor succeeded Mr. Slater. His singular acumen,
graceful utterance, lively imagination, and fervid devotion, are said
to have secured for the congregation a greater degree of piosperity
than it had ever before enjoyed. A pleasing recollection has been
preserved, of perhaps one of the most touching discourses ever com~
posed, having been delivered by him in this Hall, on The Temper cf
Christ. In this discourse the Saviour is introduced, by way of illus-
trating his own command that “repentance and remission of sins
should be preached imto all nations, beginning at Jerusalem,” as giving
the Apostles directions how they are to proceed in carrying out this
requirement. Amongst other things, he is represented as saying to
them :-“ Go into all nations and offer this salvation as you go; but
lest the poor house of Israel should think themselves abandoned to
despair, the seed of Abraham, mine ancient friend; as cruel and
unkind as they have been, go, make them the first qfer of grace; let
them that struck the rock, drink first of its refreshing streams; and

