 .`
\
Lrn--.mn cnnucrrtlm or crmmocx. 9
tkythat drew myblood,be welcome to its   virtue. Tell
them,that as Iww sentto the bctsheep¢y‘”theluauae¢y‘Israel, so,if
they will .be gathered, I will be their shepherd still. Though they
despised my tears which I shed over them, and imprecated my bkod
tobe upon them, tell them ’tww for theirsakes I shed both; that
by my tears I might soften their hearts towards God,and bymy
blood I might reconcile God to them. ...... Tell them, you have
seen the prints of the nails upon my hands and feet, and the wounds
ofthe spear in my side; and thatthose marks oftheir cruelty are so
far from giving me vindictive thoughts, that, if they will but repent,
every wound they have given me speaks in their behalf; pleads with
the Father for the remimion of their sins, and enables me to bestow
it. ...... Nay, if you meet that poor wreteh that thrust the spear
intomyside,tell himthereisanotherway,abetterway, of coming
atmyheart. --Ifhe,will1epeht,.andloolcup¢mhimwlwfmhehaa
P\b@,(Mldl|‘iu|)\01H“!&,IWil1 cherish him-in that verybosom he has
wounded; hd shall find the blood he shed an ample atonement for
thesinofsheddingit. And tell himhom me, he will put me to
more pain and displeasure by refusing this offer of my blood, than
when he first drew it. forth.” In Dr. Grosvenor’s old age, notwith-
standing that he was. amisted, from time to time, by eminent divines,
the congregation began to decline. After his death, the pastoral
charge was held by Dr. Hodge and Mr. Jon  successively, but,
under the ministry of the latter, the church had become so enfeebled,
that, on the expiration of the lease in 1769, the members agreed to
dholve, and were gradually absorbed in other moieties
From this _digression we return, only to record the last circum-
staneenecessary to complete this brief sketch. 'I'he death of Char-
nock took place July 27, 1680, when he was in the fifty-third year
of his age. The particulars that have come down to us of this event,
like those of the other parts of his history, are scanty, yet they war-
rant us to remark that he died in a frame of mind every way worthy
of his excellent character and holy life. He was engaged, at the
time, in delivering to his people, at Crosby Hall, that series of Dis-
courses on the Existence and- Attributes of God, on which his fame
as a writer chiefly rests. The intense interest which he was observed
to take in the subjects of which he treated, was regarded as an indi-
cation that he was nearly approaching that state in which he was to
be “filled with all the fulness of God.” Not unfrequently was he
heard to give utterance to a longing desire for that region for which
he gave 6Vid€U0e Of his being so well prepared. These circumstan-
ce were, naturally enough, looked upon as proofs that his mighty

