10 LIFE AND CHARACTER OF CHABNOCK.
mind, though yet on earth, had begun to “put off its mortality,” and
was fast ripening for the paradise of God. From his death taking
place in the house of Mr. Richard Tymns, in the parish of White-
chapel, London, it may be inferred that his departure was sudden.
The body was immediately after taken to the meeting-house at Crosby
Square, which had been so often the scene of his prayers and preach-
ing. From thence, accompanied by a long train of mourners, it was
conveyed to St. Michael’s Church, Cornhill, where it was deposited
hard by the Tower under the belfrey. The flmeral sermon was
preached by his early friend and fellow-student at Cambridge, Mr.
John Johnson, from these apposite words :-“ Then shall the right-
eous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father."
Such is an outline of the facts, as far as they are known, of the life
of this great man. There are none, it is true, of those striking occur-
rences and marvellous incidents in the narrative, which attract the no-
tice ofthe multitude, and which are so gratifying to those who are in
quest of excitement more than of edification. But, let it not be thought
that, for this reason, the narrative must be destitute of the materials
of personal improvement. If the advantages to be derived from a
piece of biography are at all proportioned to the degree in which
the character and circumstances of the subject resemble those of the
reader, a greater number, at least, may be expected to obtain benent
from a life, the incidents of which are more common, inasmuch as
there are but comparatively few, the events of whose history are of
an extraordinary and dazzling description. “When a character,”
to use the language of a profound judge of human nature,” “ se-
lected from the ordinary ranks of life, is faithfully and minutely de-
lineated, no eifort is requisite to enable us to place oluselves in the
same situation; we accompany the subject of the narrative, with an
interest undiminished by distance, unimpaired by dissimilarity of
circumstances; and, from the efforts by which he surmounted diffi-
culties and vanquished temptations, we derive the most useful prac-
tical lessons. He who desires to strengthen his virtue and purify his
principles, will always prefer the solid to the specious; will be more
disposed to contemplate an example of the unostentatious piety and
goodness which all men may obtain, than of those extraordinary
achievements to which few can aspire; nor is it the mark of a supe-
rior, but rather a vulgar and superdcial taste, te consider nothing as
great or excellent but that which glitters with titles, or is elevated
by rank.”
~ * Robert Hall.

