LIFE AND CHARACTER OF CHARNOCK. 11
let us endeavor to portray the character of Chamock.
The mental qualities bywhichhewasmostdistinguishedasaman,
were judgment and imagination. The reasoning faculty, naturally
strong, was improved by diligent training and habitual exercise. In
tracing the relations and tendencies of things, he greatly excelled;-
lme could compare and contrast with admirable ease and beautiful dis-
crimination; and his deductions, as was to be expected, were usually
sound and logical. Judgment was, indeed, the presiding faculty in
his, asitoughttobein allminds.
The more weighty qualities of intellect were in him united to a
brilliant ihncy. By this means he was enabled to adorn the more
solid materials of thought with the attractive hues of inventive ge-
nius. His fine and teeming imagination, ever under the strict con-
trol of reason and virtue, was uniformly turned to the most impor-
tant purposes. This department of mental phenomena, from the
abuses to which it is liable, is apt to be undervalued; yet, were this
the proper place, it would not be difiicult to show that imagination
is one of the noblest faculties with which man has been endowed-
a iiaculty, indeed, the sound and proper use of which is not only ne-
cemary to the existence of sympathy and other social affections, but
also intimately connected with those higher exercises of soul, by which
men are enabled to realize the things that are not seen and eternal.
Chamock’s imagination was under the most cautious and skilful
management-the handmaid, not. the mistress of his reason-and,
doubtless, it tended, in no small degree, to free his character from
that cold and contracted selfishness which is apt to predominate in
those who are deficient in this quality; tc impart a generous warmth
to his intercourse with others; and to throw over his compositions
as an author an   and delightful glow.
Thme qualities of mind were associated with habits of intense ap-
plication and persevering diligence, which alike tended to invigorate
his original powers, and enabled him to turn them all to the best ac~
count. To the original vigor of his powers must be added that
which culture supplied. Charnock was a highly educated man. As
remarked by the first editors of his works, he was not only “ a per-
son of excellent parts, strong reason, great judgment, and cmious
fancy,” but “ of high improvements and general learning, as having
been all his days a most diligent and methodical student.” An alum-
nus of both the English universities, he may be said te have drawn
nourishment from each of these generous mothers. He had the rep-
utation of being a general scholar; his acquisitions being by no
means limited to the literature of his profession. Not onlv was his

