12 urn AND cnamcrsn or cnanuocx.
acquaintance with the original languages of Scripture great, but he
had made considerable attainments in the study of medicine; and,
indeed, there was scarcely any branch of learning with which he
was unacquainted. All his mental powers were-thus strengthened
and refined by judicious discipline, and, as we shall see presently, he
knew well how to devote his treasures, whether original or acquired,
to the service of the Redeemer; and to consecrate the richest stores
of natural genius and educational attainment, by laying them all at
the foot of the Cross.
I But that which gave the finish to Charnock’s intellectual character,
was not the predominance of any one quality so much as the harmo-
nious and nicely balanced union of all. Acute perception, sound
judgment, masculine sense, brilliant imagination, habits of reflection,
and a complete mastery over the succession of his thoughts, were all
combined in that comely order and that due proportion which go to
constitute a well-regulated mind. There was, in his case, none of
that disproportionate development of any one particular faculty,
which, in some cases, serves, like an overpowering glare, to dim, if
not almost to quench the splendor of the rest. The various faculties
of his soul, to make use of a Hgure, rather shone forth like so many
glittering stars, from the calm and clear firmament of his mind, each
supplying its allotted tribute of light, and contributing to the serene
and solemn lustre of the whole. As has been said of another, so may
it be said of him-“ If it be rare to meet with an individual whose
mental faculties are thus admirably balanced, in whom no tyrant iho-
ulty usurps dominion over the rest, or erects a. despotism on the ruins
of the intellectual republic; still more rare is it to meet with such a
mind in union with the far higher qualities of religious and moral
excellence.”
Nor were Charnock’s moral qualities less estimable than his intel-
lectual. He was a pre-eminently holy man, distinguished at once
by personal purity, social equity, and habitual devotion. Early the
subject of saving grace, he was in his own person an excellent ex-
ample of the harmony of faith, with the philosophy of the moral
feelings. Strongly he felt that while “ not without law to God,” he
was nevertheless “under law to Christ.” The motives from which
he acted in every department of moral duty were evangelical motives;
and so entirely was he imbued with the spirit, so completely under
the power of the gospel, that whatever he did, no matter how humble
in the scale of moral duty, he “served the Lord Christ.” The regu-
lating principle of his whole life is embodied in the apostolical injunc-
tion :--“ Whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not

