LIFE AND CHARACTER OF CHARNOCK. 13
unto men." The various talents with which he was gifted by the
God of nature, were all presided over by an enlightened and deep-
toned piety, for which he was indebted to the sovereign grace of God
in the Lord Jesus Christ. It was this that struck the key-note of
the intellectual and moral harmony to which we have advert/ed as a
prominent feature in his character. This at once directed each faculty
to its proper object, and regulated the measure of its exercise. De-
votion was the very element in which he lived and breathed, and
had his being. Devout communion with Supreme Excellence, the
contemplation of celestial themes, and preparation for a higher state
of being, constituted the truest pleasures of his existende, elevated
him far above the control of merely sentient and animal nature, and
secured for him an undisturbed repose of mind, which was itself but
an antepast of what awaited him in the unclouded region of glory.
Nor was his devotion transient or occasional merely; it was habitual
m it was deep, extending its plastic and sanctifying inliuence to
every feature of character, and every event of life; dictating at
once ceaseless efforts for the welfare of man, and intensest desires
for the glory of God; and securing that rarest perhaps of all com-
binations, close communion with the future and the eternal, and the
busy and conscientious discharge of the ordinary duties of every-
day life.
His natural temper appears to have been reserved, and his man-
ners grave. Regarding the advantages to be derived from general
society as insuiiicient to compensate for the loss of those to be ae-
quired by retirement, he cultivated the acquaintance of few, and
these few the more intelligent and' godly, with whom, however, put-
ting aside his natural backwardness, he was wont to be perfectly
aiable and communicative. But his best and most highly cherished
companions were his books, of which he had contrived to secure a
valuable though select collection. With these he held frequent and
familiar intercourse. Great part of his time, indeed, was spent in
his study; and when the calls of unavoidable duty compelled him
to leave it, so bent was he on redeeming time, that, not content with
appropriating the hours usually devoted to sleep, he cultivated the
habit of thinking while walking along the streets. So successful was
he in his efforts of abstraction, that, amid the most crowded and attrac-
tive scenes, he couldswithdraw his mind easily from the vaniti 
which solicited his attention, and give himself up to close thinking
and useful meditation. The productions of his pen, and the char-
acter of his pulpit services, bore ample evidence that the hours of
retirement were given neither to frivolous vacuity nor to seliiindul-

