14 mr ,mn CHARACTER or cnaauocx.
gent sloth, but to the industrious cultivation of his powers, and to
conscientious preparation for public duty. He was not content, like
many, with the mere reputation of being a recluse; on the contrary, he
was set on bringing forth the fruits of a hard student. There was
always one day in the week in which he made it to appear that
the others were not misspent. His Sabbath ministrations were not the
loose vapid eifusions of a few hours’ careless preparation, but were
rather the substantial, well-arranged, well-compacted products of
much intense thought and deep cogitation. “Had he been less in
his study,” says his editors quaintly, “he would have been less liked
in the pulpit.”
To a person of these studious habits it may easily be conceived
what distress it must have occasioned to have his library swept away
from him. In that dreadful misfortune which befell the metropolis
in 1666, ever since known as “the fire of London,” the whole of
Charnock’s books were destroyed. The amount of calamity involved
in such an occurrence can be estimated aright only by those who
know from experience the strength and sacredness of that endearmeut
with which the real student regards those silent but instructive
friends which he has drawn around him by slow degrees; with
which he has cultivated along and intimate acquaintance; which
are ever at hand with their valuable assistance, counsel and consola-
tion, when these are needed; which, unlike some less judicious com-
panions, never intrude upon him against his will; and with whose
very looks and positions, as they repose in their places around him, he
has become so familiarized, that it is no diiiicult thing for him to call
up their appearance when absent, or to go directly to them in the
dark without the risk of a mistake. Some may be disposed to smile
at this love of books. But where is the scholar who will do so?
Where is the man of letters who, for a single moment, would place
the stately mansions and large estates of the “ sons of earth” in com-
parison with his own well-loaded shelves? Where the student who,
on looking round upon the walls of his study, is not conscious of a
satisfaction greater and better far than landed proprietor ever felt on
surveying his fields and lawns--a satisfaction which almost uncon
sciously seeks vent in the exclamation, “My library! a dukedom
large enough i” Such, and such only, can judge what must have
been Charnock’s feelings, when he found that his much cherished
volumes had become a heap of smouldering ashes. The sympathetic
regret is only rendered the more intense, when it is thought that,
in all probability, much valuable manuscript perished in the con
ilagration.

