LEE AND   OF CHARNOCK. 15
- Gharnock excelled as a Preadier. This is an oiiice which, whether
as regards its origin, nature, design, or effects, it will be diflicult we
overrate. The relation in which it stands to the salvation of immortal
souls, invests it with an interest overwhelmingly momentous. Our
former remarks will serve to show how well he of whom we now
speak was qualified for acting in this highest of all the capacities in
which man is required to serve. His mental and moral endowments,
his educational acquirements, his habitual seriousness, his sanctified
imagination, and his vigorous faith, pre-eminently itted him for dis-
charging with ability and effect the duties of a herald of the Cross.
Of his style of preaching we may form a pretty acciuate idea from
the writings he has left, which were all of them transcribed from the
notes of his sermons. We hence°infer that his discourses, while ex-
eelling in solid divinity and argumentative power, were not by any
means deficient in their practical bearing, being addressed not more
to the understandings thzm to the hearts of his hearers. “ Nothing]
it has been justly remarked, “can be more nervous than his reason-
ing, nothing more affecting than his applications.” While able to
unravel with great acuteness and judgment the intricacies of a nice
question in polemics, he could with no less dexterity and skill ad-
drem himself to the business of the Christian life, or to the casuistry
of religious experience. Perspicuous plainnem, convincing cogency,
great wisdom, fearl  honesty, and aifectionate earnestness, are the
chief characteristics of his sermons.
To this it must be added that his preaching was eminently evan-
gelical. So deeply imbued with gospel truth were his discourses,
that, like the Book of the Law of old, they might be said to be
sprinkled with blood, even the blood of atonement. The Cross was
at once the basis on which he rested his doctrinal statements, and the
armory from which he drew his most forcible and pointed appeals
to the conscience. His aim seems never once to have been to catch
applause to himself by the enticing words of man’s wisdom, by
arraying his thoughts in the motley garb of an affected and gorgeous
style, or by having recourse to the tricks of an inflated and mere~
tricious oratory. His sole ambition appears to have been to “t1u'n’
sinners from the error of their ways ;” and for this end he wisely
judged nothing to be so well adapted as “holding forth the words
of eternal life” in their native simplicity and power, and in a spirit
of sincere and ardent devotion. His object was to move his hearers,
not towards   but towards his Master; not to elicit expressions
gf admiration for the messenger, but to make the message bear on
dsc salvation of those to whom it was delivered; not to please, so

