16 LEE AND cnanacrsn or CHARNOCK. _
much as to convert, his hearers; not to tickle their fancy, but to save
the soul 'from death, and thus to hide a multitude of sins.
The character of his preaching, it is true, was adapted to the higher
and more intelligent classes; yet was it not altogether unsuiwdto
those of humbler rank and pretensions. He could handle the myste-
ries of the gospel with great perspicuity and plainness, using his pro-
found learning for the purpose, not of mystifying, but of making
things clear, so that persons even in the ordinary walks of life felt
him to be not beyond their capacity. The energy, gravity, and
earnestness of his manner, especially when young, contributed to
render him a great favorite with the public, and accordingly he
drew after him large and deeply- interested audiences-a circumstance
which, we can suppose, was valued‘by him, not because of the incense
which it ministered to a spirit of vanity, but of the opportunity it
afordcd him of winning souls to the Redeemer. When more ad-
vanced in life, this kind of popularity, we are told, declined, in con-
sequence of his being compelled from an iniirmity of memory to
read his sermons, with the additional disadvantage of requiring to
supply defect of sight by the use of a glass. But an increasing
weight and importance in the matter, fully compensated ibr any defi-
ciency in the manner of his preaching. If the more iiighty of his
hearers retired, others-among whom were many of his brethren in
the ministry-who knew how to prefer solidity to show, crowded to
supply their places. Reckoning it no ordinary privilege to be per-
mitted to sit devoutly at the feet of one so well qualified to initiate
them into the knowledge "of the deep things of God, they continued
to listen to his instructions with as much admiration and profit as ever.
It is as a W1~ite1°, however, that Charnock is best known, and this,
indeed, is the only character in which we can now come into contact
with him. His works are extensive, but, with a single exception,
posthumous. The only thing published by himself was the piece on
“The Sinfulne  and Cure of Thoughts,” which appeared originally
in the Supplement to the Morning Exercise at Cripplegate. Yet
such was the quantity of manuscript left behind him at his death,
that two large folio volumes were soon transcribed, and published
by his friends, Mr. Adams and Mr. Veal, to whom he had committed
his papers. The Discourse on Providence was the first published;
it appeared irf 1680. The Discourses on the Existence and Attributes
of God came next, in 1682. There followed in succession the treatises
on Regeneration, Reconciliation, The Lord’s Supper, &ac. A second
edition of the whole works, in two volumes, folio, came out in 1684-,
and a third in 17 O2-no slight proof of the estimation in which they

