LIFE AND CHARACTER OF OHARNOCK. 17
were held. Several of the treatises have appeared from time to time
in a separate form, especially those on Divine Providence, on Man’s
Enmity to God, and on Mercy for the Chief of Sinners. The best
edition of Charnock’s works is that published in 1815, in nine volumes,
royal 8vo; with a prefatory Dedication, and a Memoir of the Author,
by the Rev. Edward Parsons of Leeds.
All Charnock’s writings are distinguished for sound theology, pro-
found thinking, and lively imagination. They partake of that massive
divinity for which the Puritan Divines were in general remarkable,
and are of course orthodox in their doctrinal statements_ and reason-
ings. Everywhere the reader meets with the evidences and fruits
of deep thought, of a mind, indeed, of unusual comprehension and
energy of grasp, that could penetrate with ease into the very core,
and fathom at pleasure the profoundest depths of the most abstruse
and obscure subjects; while, from the rich stores of an exuberant
and hallowed fancy, he was enabled to throw over his compositions
the most attractive ornaments, and to supply spontaneously such
illustrations as were necessary to render his meaning more clear, or
his lessons more impressive. In a word, for weight of matter, for
energy of thought, for copiousness of improving reiiection, for gran-
deur and force of illustration, and for accuracy and felicitousness of
expression, Charnock is equalled by few, and surpassed by none of
the writers of the age to which he belonged. The eulogy pronounced
by a competent judge on the Treatise on the Attributes, applies with
equal justice to all his other writings:-“Perspicuitgy and depth;
metaphysical subtlety and evangelical simplicity; immense learning,
and plain but irrefragable reasoning, conspire to render that work
one of the most inestimable productions that ever did honor to the
sanctiiied judgment and genius of a human being.”°
The correctness of the composition, in these works, is remarkable,
considering that they were not prepared for the press by the author
himself, and that they must have been originally written amid scenes
of distraction and turmoil, arising out of the events of the times.
The latter circumstance may account for the manly vigor by which
they are characterized, but it only renders their accuracy and polish
the more wonderful. Reinement of taste and extensive scholarship
can alone explain the chasteness, ease, and elegance of style, so free
from all verbosity and clumsiness, which mark these productions.
There were giants in literature in those days, and STEPHEN CBARNOCK
was not the least of the noble fraternity.
Charnock may not have all the brilliancy of Bunyan, nor all the
‘ Toplady.
vor. r.-2

