18 LIFE AND CH'.AB.ACTEB OF CHABNOCK.
metaphysical acumen and subtle analysis of Howe, nor all the awful
earnestness of Baxter; but he is not less argumentative, while he is
more theological than any of them, and his theology, too, is more
sound than that of some. “He was not,” say the original editors of
his works, “for that modern divinity which is so much in vogue with
some, who would be counted the only sound divines; having tasted
the old, he did not desire the new, but said the old is better.” There
is, therefore, not one of all the Puritan Divines whose writings can
with more safety be recommended to the attention of students of
divinity and young ministers. It is one of the happy signs of the
ti.mes in which we live, that a taste for reading such works is begin-
ning to revive; and we can conceive no better wish for the interests
of mankind in general, and of our country in particular, than that
the minds of our yoimg divines were thoroughly impregnated with
the good old theology to be found in such writings as those which
we now take the liberty to introduce and recommend. “ Ifa preacher
wishes to recommend himself by the weight of his doctrines,” to use
the language of Mr. Parsons, “he will find in the writings of Charnock
the great truths of Scripture illustrated and explained in the most
lucid and masterly manner. If he Wishes to be distinguished by the
evangelical strain of his discourses, and by the continual exhibition
of Christ and him crucified, he will here find the characters of Christ,
and the adaptation of the gospel to the circumstances and wants of
man as a fallen creature, invariably kept in view. If he wishes for
usefulness in the Church of God, here he has the brightest example
of forcible appeals to the conscience, and of the most impressive
applications of Scripture truth, to the_various conditions of mankind.
And, Hnally, if he reads for his own advantage as a Christian, his
mind will be delighted with the inexhaustible variety here provided
for the employment of his enlightened faculties, and his improvement
in every divine attainment.”
Happy shall we be, if what we have written shall, by the blessing
of God, prove the means of producing or reviving a taste for reading
the works of our author, being firlly convinced with a former editor,
that, “while talent is respected, or virtue revered-while holiness of
conversation, consistency of character, or elevation of mind, are con-
sidered as worthy of imitation-while uniform and strenuous exertion
for the welfare of man is honored, and constant devotedness to the
glory of God admired, the memory of Clnnnocx shall be held inu
grateful remembrance."
Aimnnm Puon, Glasgow, June, 1846.

