__
T0 THE READER.
Tma long since promised and greatly expeded volume of the reverend
author upon the Divine Attributes, being transcribed out of his own manu-
$'lP\8 by the unwearied diligence of those worthy persons that undertook it,‘
is now at last come to thy hands: doubt not but thy reading will pay for thy
waiting, and thy satisfaction make full compensation for thy patience. In the
Gpktle before his treatise on Providence, it was intimated that his following
discourses would not be inferior to that; and we are persuaded that, ere thou
hast perused one half of this, thou wilt acknowledge that it was modestly
qnoken. Enough, assure thyself, thou wilt find here for thy entertainment and
delight, as well as profit.. The sublimeness, variety, and rareness of the truths
have handled, together with the elegancy of the composure, neatness of the
style, and whatever is wont to make any book desirable, will all concur in the
recommendation of this. What so high and noble a subject, what so fit for
his meditations or thine, as the highest and noblest Being, and those tran-
Seendently glorious perfections wherewith he is clothed! A mere contempla-
tion of the Divine excellencies may afford much pleasure to any man that
love to exercise his reason, and is addicted to speculation: but what incom-
parable sweetnms, then, will holy souls find in viewing and considering those
PCMMB now, which they are more fully to behold hereafter; and seeing
what manner of God, how wise and powerful, how great, and good, and holy
ii he, in whom the covenant interests them, and in the enjoyment of whom
3116! happiness consistsl If rich men delight to sum up their vast revenues.
to read over their rentals, look upon their hoards; if they bless themselves in
Wir great wealth, or, to use the prophetfs words (J er; ix. 28), “glory in their
lidlts,” well may believers rejoice and glory in their “knowing the Lord” (ver.
24), and plme themselves in seeing how rich they are in having an immensely
fllll and all-suilicient God for their inheritance. Alasl how little do most men
hiv' of that Deity they profess to serve, and own, not as their Sovereign only,
bil! their Portion. To such this author might say, as Paul to the Athenians,
‘Whom you ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you” (Acts   23).
This treatises, reader, will inform thee who He is whom thou callest thine,
‘ lr. J. Wiekens, and Mr. Ashton.

