'*'-u,-_
20 memos.
present thee with a view of thy chief good, and make thee value thyself A
thousand times more upon thy interest with God, than upon all external ae-
complishments and worldly possessions. Who but delights to hear well of
one whom he loves! Qod is thy love, if thou be a believer; and then it can-
not but fill thee with delight and ravishment to hear so much spoken in his
praise. David desired to “dwell in the house of the Lord,” that he might
there behold his beauty : how much of that beauty, if thou art but capable of
seeing it, mayest thou behold in this volume, which was our author’s main
business, br about three years before he died, to display before his hearersl
True, indeed, the Lord’s glory, as shining forth before his heavenly courtiers
above, is unapproachable by mortal men ; but what of it is visible in his works
-creation, providence, redemption-falls under the cognizance of his inferior
subjects here. And this is, in a great measure, presented to view in these dis-
courses; and so much, we may well say, as may, by the help of grace, be effec-
tual to raise thy admiration, attract thy love, provoke thy desires, and enable
thee to make some guess at what is yet unseen; and why not, likewise, to
clear thy eyes, and prepare them for future sight, as well as turn them away
from the eontemptible vanities of this present life? Whatever is glorious in
this world, yet (as the apostle, in another case) “hath no glory, by reason of
the glory that exc/els” (2 Cor. iii. 10). This “excellent glory” is the subject
of this book, to which all created beauty is but mere shadow and duskiness.
If thy eyes be well fixed on this, they will not be easily drawn to wander after
other objects: if thy heart be taken with God, it will be mortitied to every
thing that is not God. _
But thou hast in this book, not only an excellent subject in the general, but
great variety of matter for the employment of thy understanding, as well as
enlivening thy affections, and that, too, such as thou wilt not find elsewhere:
many excellent things which are out of the road of ordinary preachers and
writers, and which may be grateful to the curious, no less than satisfactory to
the wise and judicious. It is not, therefore, a book to be played with or slept
over, but read with the most intent and serious mind; for though it afford
much pleasure for the fancy, yet much more work for the heart, and hath,
indeed, enough in it to busy all the faculties. The dress is complete and de-
cent, yet not garish nor theatrical; the rhetoric masculine and vigorous, such
as became a pulpit, and was never borrowed from the stage; the expremions
full, clear, apt, and such as are best suited to the weightiness and spirituality
of the truths here delivered. It is plain he was no empty preacher, but was
more for sense than sound, filled up his words with matter, and chose rather to
inform his hearers’ minds than to claw any itching ears. Yet we will not say
but some little things, a word, or a phrase now and then he may have, which,
no doubt, had he lived to transcribe his own sermons, he would have altered.
If in some lesser matters he differ from thee, it is but in such as godly and
learned men do frequently, and may, without breach of charity, differ in among
themselves: in some things he may differ from us too, and, it may be, we from

