ranucn. 21
each other; and where are there any two persons who have in all, especially
the more disputable points of religion, exactly the same sentiments,-at least,
express themselves altogether in the same terms? But this we must say, that
though he treat of many of the most abstruse and mysterious doctrines of Chris-
tianity, which are the subjects of great debates and controversies in the world,
yet we find no one material thing in which he may justly be called heterodox
(unlem old heresies be of late grown orthodox, and his differing from them
must make him faulty), but generally delivers, as in his former pieces,” what
is most consonant to the faith of this and other, the best reformed churches.
He was not, indeed, for that modern divinity which is so much in vogue with
some who would be counted the only sound divines; having “tasted the old,"
he did not desire “ the new,” but said, “the old is better.” Some errors, espe-
cially the Socinian, he sets himself industriously against, and cuts the very
sinews of them, yet sometimes almost without naming them.
In the doctrinal part of several of his discourses thou wilt find the depth of
polemical divinity, and in his inferences from thence, the sweetness of practical ;
some things which may exercise the profoundest scholar, and others which
may instruct and   the weakest Christian. Nothing is more nervous than
his neasonings, and nothing more affecting than his applications. Though he
make great use of schoolmen, yet they are certainly more beholden to him
than he to them; he adopts their notions, but he retines them too, and im-
proves them and refonns them from the barbarousness in which they were
expressed, and dresseth them up in his own language (so far as the nature of
the matter will permit, and more clear terms are to be found), and so makes
them intelligible to vulgar capacities, which, in their original rudeness, were
obscure and strange even to leamed heads. `
In a word, he handles the great truths of the gospel with that perspicuity
gravity, and majesty, which best becomes the oracles of God; and we have
reason to believe, that no judicious and unbiassed reader but will acknowledge
this to be inoomparably the best practical treatise the world ever saw in Eng-
lish upon this subject. “fhat Dr. Jackson did, to whom our author gave all
due respect, was more brief and in another way. Dr. Preston did worthily
upon the Attributes in his day; but his discourses likewise, are more succinct,
when this author’s are more full and large. But whatever were the mind of
God in it, it was not his will that either of these two should live tn finish what
he had begun, both being taken away when preaching upon this subject.
Happy souls! whose last breath was spent in so noble a work, praising God
while they had any being (Psal. cxlvi. 2).
His method is much the same in most of these discourses, both in the doo-
trinal and practical part, which will make the whole more plain and facile to
ordinary readers. He rarely makes objections, and yet frequently answers
them, by implying them in those propositions he lays down for the clear-
ing up the truths he asserts. His dexterity is admirable in the applicatory
" Treatise of Providence and of Thoughtl.

