DISCOURSE l.
ON THE EXISTENCE OF GOD.
Puul xiv. 1.-The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, they
have done abominable works, there is none that doeth good.
THIS psalm is a description of the deplorable corruption by nature
of every son of Adam, since the wit ering of that common root.
Some restrain it to the Gentiles, as a wilderness full of briers and
thorns, as not concerning the Jews, the garden of God, planted by
his grace, and watered by the dew of heaven. But the apostle, the
best interpreter, rectiiies this in extending it by name to Jews, as
well as Gentiles, (Rom.   9.) “We have before roved both Jews
and Gentiles, that they a.re all under sin ;" and liver. 10-12) cites
gan of this psalm and other ‘passages of scripture for the further evi-
ence of it, concluding by ews and Gentiles, every person in the
world naturally in this state of corruption.
The   first declares the corruption of the faculties of the
soul, T fool haU¢ said in his heart; secondly, the streams issuing
from thence, Huey are corrupt, &c.: the first in atheistical principles,
the other in unworthy practice; and lays all the evil, tyranny, ust,
and persecutions by men, (as if the world were onlv for their sake)
upon the neglects of God, and the atheism cherished in their hearts.
The fool, a term in scripture signifying a wicked man, used also
by the heathen philosophers to signify a vicious person, 531 as com-
ing from 5:1 signifiesthe extinction of life in men, animals, and
plants; so the word 533 is taken, a plant that hath lost all that juice
that made jt lovely and usefi1.l.‘* So a fool is one that hath lost
his wisdom, and right notion of God and divine things which were
communicated to man by creation; one dead in sin, yet one not
so much void of rational faculties as of grace in those faculties, not
one that wants reason, but abuses his reason. In Scripture the word
sigriities foolish.” ~
Saad in his heart; that is, he thinks, or he doubts, or he wishes.
The thoughts of the heart are in the nature of words to God, thouQ1
not to men. It is used in the like case of the atheistical person,
(Ps. x. 11, 13,) “He hath said in his heart, God hath for otten; he
hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it.” He doth not f mn
n syllogism., as Calvin speaks, that there is no God: he dares not
' Isaiah xl. 7. TY 5:9 “ the Bower fadeth.” Isaiah xxviii. 1. 5 Mais 5.53 and Dl'Dnl§
put together. Deut. xxxii. 6. “ O foolish people and unwise.”

