24 crnmrocx ON THE A'rrnmU'1'Es.
openly publish it, though he dares secretly think it. He cannot raze
out the thou hts of a Deity," though he endeavors to blot those char-
acters of G05 in his soul. He hath some doubts whether there be a
God or no: lip wggies thixie were not any, anfllslplmetiriips hopes there
is none at a . e cou not so ascertain ` self convincin
arguments to produce to the world, but he tampered iivith his owii
heart to bring it to that persuasion, and smothered in himself those
notices of a Deity; which is so plain against the light of nature, that
such'a man mfg' well bg called a fool for it. D d
There is no od ° sau 'nn :wb 'non testas omini, Chal w. It is
not Jehovah, which name si nifies tli; essence of God, as the prime
and su reme being; but Eloaliia, which name signifies the providence
of Godi God. as a rector and judge. Not that he denies the exist-
ence of a Supreme Being, that created the world, but his regarding
the creatures, his government of the world, and consequently his
reward of the righteous or punishments of the wicked.
bslglfere is a threefold denial of God,d 1. Quoad e:m1stent121m,° this
a ut”  ! §§¢  2. Quoad Pravidentiam, or his ins ection into, or
care of the t ings of the world, bounding him in tllfe heavens. 3.
lggoad naturam, in regard of one or other of the perfections due
nature. `
the denial of the providence of God most understand this, not
excluding the absolute atheist, as Diagoras is reported to be, nor the
skeptical atheist, as Protagoras, who doubted whether there were a
G0 .° Those that deny the providence of God, do in effect deny the
being of God; for they strip him of that wisdom, goodness, tender-
ixzssi nfrcy, justicie, rigliteousnézsshwhich arp) the glory (if tlhe Deity.
n t at rinci e, o a ee esire to e uncontro e in t eir
lusts, which indilieeth mer? to dy denial of Providence, that thereby
they might stifle those seeds of fear which infect and embitter
their sinfiil pleasures, r(r;ay(§ as well lead them to deny that thebr;
is an sue ein as a. o . That at one blow, their fears ma f
dashgd all in ieges and dissolved by the removal of the foundation:
as men who dlesire liberty to commit works of darkness, would not
have the lights in the house dimmed, but extinguished. \Vhat men
say against Providence, because they would have no check in their
lusts, they may sayin their hearts against the existence of God upon
the same account; little difference between the dissentmg from the
one and disowning the other.
doe;/:ey are cgrupt, 'they have done abmninable works, there is 'none,t/u?
1 good. e s aks of the atheist in the sin lar, “the fool ; ’ o
the corruption isssiing in the life in the lural; ingtlimating that though
some few may choke in their hearts the sentiments of God and his
providence, and positively deny them, yet there is something of _a
sgcret atheism in all, which is the fountam of the evil practices in
t eir lives, not an utter disowning of the being of a God, but a denial
or doubting of some of the rights of his nature. When men deny
the God of purity, they must needs be polluted in soul and body,
and grow brutish in their actions. When the sense of religion is
_ ' affix mc “ No God" Muis, 4 Cocceius. ° Not owning him as the Egyp
tum called, Hsov evxaaumv. Euguhin in clue.

