'rn nxrsrmrcnor son. ~ ' 25
shaken oif, all kinds of wickednem is eagerly rushed into, whereby
they become as loathsome to,God as putreiied carcases are to men!
Not one or two evil actions is the product of such a principle, but
the whole scene of a man’s life is corrupted and becomes execrable.
_No man is exempted from some spice of atheism by the deprava-
non of his nature, which the psalmisteintimates, “ there is none that
doeth good :” though theretare indelible convictions of the being of a
Qod, that they cannot absolutel deny it; yet there are some atheis-
tiesl bubhlings in the hearts ofy men, which evidence themselves in
their actions. .As the apostle, git. i. 16,? “They profess that .they
know God, but in works the eny him.’ Evil Works are a dust
stirred Ilrslby an atheistical lzreath. He that habituates himself in
some so 'd ust, can scancely be said seriously and firmly to believe
tl; there isba Gold in being; and the apostle doth not say that they
w God, ut t ey profem to know him: true knowledge and pro-
fe“sio!na<l;§` knowltedéeil are   It intimates Iplso to usil theh un-
lease enesso eism in t e co uence, w en men s ut eir
Sglagainst the beams of so clear a g1sri:1God revengeth himself upon
for their impiety, by leaving them to their own wills, lets them
fall into the deepest sink and dregs of iniquity; and since they doubt
of him in their hearts, suffers them above others to deny him m their
works, this the apostle discourscth at large.s The text then is a
daengpion of man’s corruption.
thi;     Zéze   hath said in his heart. No better title
' o a oo is or tothe atheist.
2. Of the other faculties, 1. In sins of commission, ex ressed b
the loatt}1hs;>tmen oS‘¢J;1vvl;pt,1a’abo:'1ninable¥; 2. In sins of omilision (greg
inane doelhg e s owntecorrutionofthemin as
the cause, the corru thm of ihe other faculties Es the effect.
Gola It is a gredat folly to deny or doubt of the existence or being of
:or,ana eistisagreatfool.
Il. Practical atheism is natural to man in his con'upt state. It is
against nature as constituted by God, but natural, as nature is de-
praved by man: the absolute drsowning of the being of a God is not
natural to men, but the cont is natural; but an inconsideration
of God, or misrepresentationnblyhis natlue, is natural to man as cor-
L
mill. A secret atheism, or a partial atheism, is the spring of all the
wicked practices in the world: the disorders of the life spring &om
the ill dispositions of the heart.
For the irst, every atheist is a grand fool. If he were not a fool,
he would not irnaiinc a thing so contrary to the stream of the uni-
versal reason of t e world, contrary to the rational dictates of his
own soul, and contrary to the testimony of every creature, and link
inthe chain of creation: if he were not a fool, he would not strip
himself of humanity, and degrade himself lower _than the most des-
picable brute. It is a folly; for though God be so inaccessible that
Us cannot know him perfectly, yet he is so much in the light, that
nl i”"‘”‘ ""°é’.lZ‘?.,....r." “°‘ f” T* ’“°€i§’ f2;‘§"‘°°“' ‘FT ‘€.,"il‘“"..,...‘°1...H“ “lt 't""“'Z T3
JD Q I' 0 l. ll W) 9
1;    Rami. 24.

