26 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
we cannot be jzotally ignorant of him; as he cannot be comprehended
in his essence, he cannot be unknown in his existence; it is as easy
vby reason to understand that he is, as it is difficult to know what he
is. The demonstrations reason iiirnisheth us with for the existence
of God, will be evidences of the atheist’s folly. One would think
there were little need of spending time in evidencing this truth, since
in the principle of it, it seems to be so universally owned, and at the
first propos and demand, gains the_ assent of most men.
But, 1. Doth not the growth of atheism among us render this
necessary ? may it not justly be suspected, that the swarms of atheists
are more numerous in our times, t an history records to have been
in any age, when men will not only say it in their hearts, but pub-
lish it with their lips, and boast t at they have shaken off those
shackles which bind other men’s consciences? Doth not the bare-
faced debauchery of men evidence such a settled sentiment, or at
least a careless belief of the truth, which lies at the root, and sprouts
up in such venomous branches in the world? Can men’s hearts be
free from that principle wherewith their practices are so openly de-
praved? It is true, the light of nature shines too vigorous y for the
power of man totally to plut it out; yet loathsome actions impair and
weaken the actual t oug ts and considerations of a Deity, and are
like mists that darken the light of the sun, though the cannot ex-
tinguish it: their consciences, as a candlestick, must hold it, though
their unrighteousnws obscure it, (Rom. i. 18.) “ Who hold the truth
in unrighteousness." The engraved characters of the law of nature
remain, though they daub them with their muddv lusts to make them
illegible: so that since the inconsideration of a l)eity is the cause of
all the wickedness and extravagances of men; and as Austin saith,
the proposition is always true, the fool hath said in his heart, &c.
and more evidently true in this age than an , it will not be unneces-
sary to discourse of the demonstrations of this first principle. The
a ostles spent little time in urging this truth; it was taken for grant-
ed all over the world, and they were generally devout in the worshi
of those idols they thought to be gods: that e run from one G03
to man , and om' age is rlmning from one Goafto none at all.
2. The existence of God is the foundation of all religion. The
whole building totters if the foundation be out of course: if we have
not deliberate and right notions of it, we shall perform no worship,
no service, yield no affection to him. If there be not a God, it is
imcpoossible there can be one, for eternity is essential to the notion of
a d ; so all religion would be vain, and unreasonable to pay homage
to that which is not in being, nor can ever be. We must first be-
lieve that he is, and that he is what he declares himself to be, before
we can seek him, adore him, and devote our aifections to him.h We
cannot ,pay God a due and regular homage, unless we understand
him in is perfections, what he is; and we can pay him no homage
at all, unless we believe that he is.
3. It is fit we should know why we believe, that our belief of a
God may appear to be ugpsn undeniable evidence, and that we may
give a better reason for ° existence, than that we have heard our
* Heb. xi. 6.

