nm nxrsrmrcn or non. 27
parents and teachers tell us so, and our acquaintance think so. It is
asrnueh as to say there is no God, when we know not why we be-
lieve there is, and would not consider the arguments for his exist-
ence.
4. It is nece$ary to depress that secret atheism which is in the
heart of every man by natme. Though every visible object which
offers itself to our sense, presents a. deity to our minds, and exhorts
into subscribe to the truth of it; yet there is a root of atheism spring-
lhgmg sometimes in wavering thoughts and foolish imaginations, in-
o ` te actions, and secret wishes. Certain it is, that every man
that doth not love God, denies God; now can he that disaifects him,
and hath a slavish fear of him, wish his existence, and say to his
own heart with any cheerfulness, there is a God, and make it his
chief care to persuade himself of it? he would persuade himself there
is no God, and stifle the seeds of it in his reason and conscience, that
he might have the greatest liberty to entertain the allurements of the
flesh. It is necessary to excite men to daily and actual considerations
of God and his nature, which would be a bar to much of that wick-
edness which overflows in the lives of men.
5. Nor is it rmuseful to those who eiiectually believe and love
him ;i for those who have had a converse with God, and felt his
powerlirl influences in the secrets of their hearts, to take a pros ct
of those satisfactory accounts which reason gives of that God &y
adore and love; to see every creature justif them in their owning
of him, and affections to him: indeed the evidences of a God striking
awpn the conscience of those who resolve to cleave to sin as their
'efest darling, will dash their leasures with unwelcome mixtures.
I shall further premise this, That the folly of atheism is evidenced
by the light of reason. Men that will not listen to Scripture, as
having no counteraart of it in their souls, cannot easily deny natural
l'€3S0l1, which rise up on all sides for the justiication of t is truth.
There is a natural as well as a revealed knowledge, and the book of
the creatures is legible in declaring the being of a God, as well as the
Scriptures are in eclaring the nature of a God; there are outward
objects in the world, and common principles in the conscience, whence
it may be inferred.
For, 1. God in regard of his existence is not only the discovery
of iaith, but of reason. God hath revealed not only his being, but
some sparks of his eternal power and glodhead in his works, as well
as in his word. (Rom. i. 19, 222, “God ath showed it unto thcm,”-
how Y* in his works; by the ings that are made, it is a discovery
to our reason, as shining in the creatures; and an object of our fait
asbreakingoutu nus in the Scri tures: it is an article of our
hith, and an artidle) of our reason. gaith supposeth natural knowl-
edge, as grace supposeth nature. Faith indee is propxerly of things
above reason, purely de nding upon revelation. W at can be de-
monstrated by natural light, is not so properly the object of faith;
thouahin regard of the addition of a certainty by revelation it is so.
The 'ef that God is, which the apostle speaks of] is not so much
I the bare existence of God, as what God is in relation to them that
'0oce¢iSum.Thaol.c.8.§1. *Aquin. |Heb.xi.6.

