28 - CHARNOCK ON 'rms ATTRIBUTES. °
seek him, viz. a rewarder. The a ostle speaks of the faith of Abel,
the faith of Enoch, such a faith tliat pleases God: but the faith o
.Abel testified in his sacriice, and the faith of Enoch testified in his
walking with God, was not simply a faith of the existence of God.
Cain in the time of Abel, other men in the world in the time of
Enoch, believed this as well as they: but it was a faith joined with
the worship of God, and desires to dplease him in the way of his own
appointment; so that they believe that God was such as he had de-
c ared himselfto be in his romise to Adam, such an one as would
be as good as his word, andlbruise the serpent’s head. He that seeks
to Go according to the mind of God, must believe that he is such a
God that will pardon sin, and justify a seeker of him; that he is a
God of that ability and will, to justify a sinner in that way he hath
alppointed for the clearing the holiness of his nature, and vindicating
t e honor of his law violated by man. No man can seek God or
love God, unless he believe him to be thus; and he cannot seek God
without a discovery of his own mind how he would be sought. For
it is not a seeking God in any way of man's invention, that renders
him capable of this desired fruit of a reward. He that believes God
as a rewarder, must believe the promise of God concerning the Mes-
siah. Men under the conscience of sin, cannot tell without a divine
discovery, whether God will reward, or how he will reward the seek-
ers of him; and therefore cannot act towards him as an object of
faith. Would any man seek God merely because he is, or love him
because he is, if he did not know that he should be acceptable to him ?
The bare existence of a thing is not the ground of affection to it, but
those ualities of it and oiu' interest in it, which render it amiable
and dellivhtflil. How can men, whose consciences fly in their faces
seek God or love him, without this knowledge that he is a rewarderi
Nature doth not show any way_to a sinner, how to reconcile God’s
provoked justice with his tenderness. The faith the apostle speaks
of here is a faith that eyes the reward as an encouragement, and the
will of God as the rule of its acting; he doth not speak simply of the
existence of God.
I have spoken the more of this place, because the Sociniansm use
this to decry any natural knowledge of God, and that the existence
of God is onl to be known by revelation, so that by that reason any
one that lived’ without the Scripture hath no ground to believe the
being of a God. The Scripture ascribes a knowledge of God to all
nations in the world (Rom. i. 19); not only a faculty of knowing, if
they had arguments and demonstrations, as an ignorant man in any
art hath a faculty to know; but it ascribes an actual knowledge
(ver. 10) “ manifest in them ;” (ver. 21) “ They knew God ;” not they
might know him; they knew him when they did not care for know~
ing him. The notices of God are as intelligible to us by reascn, as
any object in the world is visible; he is written in every letter.
2. We are often in the Scripture sent to take a prospect of the
creatures for a discovery of God. The apostles drew arguments from
the topics of nature, when they discoursed with those that owned
the Scripture (Rom. i. 19), as well as when they treated with those
' Voet. Theo). Natural. mp. 8. § 1. p. 22.

