THE  CE OF GOD. 29
that were ignorant of it, as Acts xiv 16, 17 And among the »hi-
losophers o Athens gem xvii. 27, 29), such arguments the Iioly
Ghost in the apostles ought sufiicient to convince men of the exist-
ence, unity, irituality, and patience of God. Such ar ents had
not been useil) b ` ` ` `
y them and the prophets from the visigllemthings in
the world to silence the Gentiles with whom they dealt, had not this
truth, and, much more about God, been demonstrable by natlual
reason: they knew well enough that probable arguments would not
satisfy piercing and inquisitive minds."
ln Paul‘s account, the testimony of the creatures was without con-
tradiction. God himself justifies this way of proceeding by his own
example, and remits Job to the consideration of the creatures, to
spell out something of his divine perfections.° .And this is so con-
vincmg an argument of the existence of God, that God never vouch-
safed an miracl f ` °
“ry e, or put orth any act of omnipotency, besides what
was e ` ent in the creatures, for the satisfaction of t e curiosity of
any atheist, or the evincing of his being, as he hath done for the
evidencing thow truths which were not written in the book of na-
ture, or for the restoring a decayed worship, or the protection or
deliverance of his people. Those miracles in publishing the gospel,
indeed, did demonstrate the existence of some supreme power; ut
they were not seals designedly affixed for that, but for the confir-
mation of that truth, which was above the ken of purblind reason,
and purely the birth of divine revelation. Yet what proves the
truth of any iritual doctrine, proves ‘also in 'that t th `
sp ac e existence
of the Divine uthor of it. The revelation always implies a revealer,
and that hi h manif '
w c ests it to be a revelation, manifests also the
supreme Revealer of it. By the same light the sun manifests other
thmgpeto us, it also manifests itseltl But what miracles could ration-
ally supposed to work u n an atheist, who is not drawn to a
sense of the truth proclaimedxailoud by so many wonders of the crea-
tion? Let us now proceed to the demonstration of the atheist’s folly.
It is a folly to deny or doubt of a Sovereign Being, incomprehen-
sible in his nature, infinite in his essence and perfections, independent
in his operations, who hath given being to the whole frame of sen-
sible and intelli 'ble creatures, and governs them according to their
seyeral naturesji an imcon ' bl wisd ~
ty wiva e om , who fills the heavens
with the glory o his majesty, and the earth with the influences of
his goodnem.
It is a folly inexcusable to renounce, in this case, all appeal to
universal consent, and the joint assurances of the creatures.
Reason I. ’Tis a folly to den or doubt of that which hath been
the acknowledged sentiment ofy all nations, in all places and ages.
There is no nation but hath owned some kind of religion, and, there-
fore, no nation but hath consented in the notion of a Su reme Ore
a-
tor and Governor. P
1. This hath been universal 2. It hath been constant and imin-
terrupted. 3. Natural and innate.
  'Jobxxviii.B9,40,&c. Itilbutonetruthinphilosophyanddivimty
rhehishl|e_in9ne,enmiotbetrnsin mother; trutlainwhntappeuancemsvel;
i|h$Y¢§§“lBtll|Cu-

