30 cn.-insocx ON `rnn Arrnrsurns.
First, It hath been universally assented to by the judgments and
practices of all nations in the world.
1. No nation hath been exem t from it. All histories of former
and latter ages have not produced) any one nation but fell under the
force of this truth. Though they have differed in their religionsi
they have agreed in this truth; here both heathen, Turk, Jew, an
Christian, centre without any contention. No quarrel was ever com-
menced u on this score; though about other opinions wars have been
sharp, and) enmities irreconcilable. The notion of the existence of a.
Deity was the same in all, Indians as well as Britons, Americans as
well as Jews. It hath not been an olpinion peculiar to this or that
people, to this or that sect of philoso(p ers; but hath been as univer-
sal as the reason whereby men are iiferenced nom other creatures,
so that some have rather defined man by animal relzgioaum, than
animal rationale. ’Tis so twisted with reason that a man cannot be
accounted rational, unless he own an object of religion; therefore he
that understands not this, renounceth his humanity when he re-
nounceth a Divinity. No instance can be given of any one people
in the world that disclaimed it. It hath been owned by the wise
and ignorant, by the learned and stupid, by those who had no other
guide but the dimmest light of nature, as well as those whose candles
were snuifed by a more polite education, and that without any solemn
debate and contention. Though some philosophers have been known
to change their opinions in the concerns of nature, yet none can be
péoved to have absolutelv changed their opinion concerning the
ing of a God. One died for asserting one God; none, in the for-
mer ages upon record, hath died for asserting no God. Go to the
utmost bounds of America, you may find people without some bro-
ken pieces of the law of nature, but not without this signature and
stamp upon them, though they wanted commerce with ot ier nations,
except as savage as themselves, in whom the light of nature was as
it were sunk into the socket, who are but one remove from brutes,
who clothe not their bodies, cover not their shame, yet were they as
soon known to own a God, as they were known to be a people.
They were (possessed with the notion of a Supreme Being, the aut or
of the worl ; had an object of reli 'ous adoration; ut u rayers to
the deity they owned for the iced gings they wanted, andthe divert-
ing the evils they feared. To people so untamed where absolute
pgrfect atheism had gained a footing. No one nation of the world
own in the time of the Romans that were without their ceremonies,
whereby they signified their devotion to a deity. They had their
places of worship, where they made their vows, presented their
prayers, offered t eir sacrifices, and implored the assistance of what
they thought to be a god; and in then' distresses run immediately,
without any deliberation, to their gods: so that the notion of a deit
was as inward and settled in them as their own souls, and, indeed:
runs in the blood of mankind. The distempers of the understandin
cannot utterly deface it; you shall scarce find the most distracted
bedlam, in his raving tits, to deny a God, though he may blaspheme,
and fancy himself one. .
2. Nor doth the idolatry and multiplicity of gods in the world

