'rn sxisrsscs or son. 31
weaken, but confirm this universal consent. Whatsoever unworth
conceits men have had of God in all nations, or whatsoever degrad:
ing repmresentations they have made of him, yet they all conc1u° in
this, e t there is a Supreme Power to be adored. Though one
people worshipped the sun, others the fire,-and the Egyptians, gods
out of their riveiswgardens, and Helds; yet the notion of a Deity
existent, who crea and governed the world, and conferred daily
benefits upon them, was maintained by all, though a plied to the
stars, and in part to those sordid creatures. the lgagons of the
world establish this truth, and fall down be ore   Had not the
nations owned the bein of a God, they had never offered incense to
an idol: had there not been a deep impression of the existence of a
Deity, they had never exalted creatures below themselves to the
honor of altars: men could not so easily have been deceived by
forglend deities, if they had not had a notion of a real one. Their
fon ess to set up others in the place of God, evidenced a natural
knowledge that there was One who had a right to be worshipped.
If there were not this sentiment of a Deity, no man would ever have
made an image of a piece of wood, wors ipped it, pra ed to it, and
said, “ Deliver me, for thou art my God.”P They a phed a general
notion to a particular image. The diiference is in the manner, and
immediate object of worship, not in the formal ground of worship.
The worship sprung from a. true principle, though it was not applied
to a right object: while the were rational creatures, they could
not deface the notion; yet wliile they were corrupt creatures it was
not diiiicult to apply themselves to a. wrong object from a true prin-
ciple. A blind man knows he hath a way to go as well as one of
the clearest sight; but because of his blindness he may miss the way
and stumble into a ditch. No man would be imposed upon to take
a Bristol stone instead of a diamond, if he did not know that there
were such things as diamonds in the world: nor any man spread forth
his hands to an idol, if he were altogether without the sense of a
Deity. Whether it be a false or a true God men ap ly to, yet in
both, the natural sentiment of a God is evidenced fQl their mistakes
were grafts inserted in ' stock, since they would multiply gods
rather than deny a Deit .
How should such a gc eral submission be entered into b all the
world, so as to adore things of a base alloy,<l_if the force ofy religion
were not such, that in any fashion a. man would seek the satisfaction
of his natural instinct to some object of worship? This great di-
versity coniirms this consent to be a. good argument, for it evidenceth
it not to be a cheat, combination or conspiracy to deceive, or a mu-
tual intelligence, but every one finds it in his climate, yea in himself
People would never have given the title of a God to men or brutes
had there not been a pre-existin and un uestioned persuasion, that
there was such a being ;-how else should the notion of a God come
into their minds ?-the notion that there is a God must be more
ancient! _
3. Whatsoever disputes there have been in the world, this of the
| Isaiah xliv. 17; ° Cpu-ron de la Sagesse, Liv. i. ch. 7. p. 48, 44. ' Gassend.
Phys. § 1, lib. iv. c. 2. p. 29 _

