82 _ CHARNOCK on 'rim yrramnrrs.
4
existence of God was never the subject of contention. All other
things have been questioned. What jlarrings were there among
philosophers about natural things! into ow many lpartieswere they
split! with what animosities did they maintain t eir several judg-
ments! but we hear of no solemn controversies about the existence
of a Supreme Being: this never met with any considerable contra-
diction: no nation, that hath ut other things to question, would
ever suffer this to be disparagedi so much as by a public doubt. We
find amon the heathen contentions about the nature of God and the
number 0? gods, some .asserted an innumerable multitude of gods,
some affirmed him to be sub`ect to birth and death, some aflirmed
the entire world was God; otghers fancied him to be a circle of a brigiht
fire; others that he was a spirit difused through the whole worl :'
yet they unanimously concurred in this, as the judgment of universal
reason, that there was such a sovereign Being: and those that were
skeptical in everything else, and asserted that the greatest certainty
was that there was nothing certain, professed a certainty in this,
The question was not whether there was a First Cause, but what it
was. It is much the same thing, as the disputes about the nature
and matter of the heavens, the sun and planets, though there be great
diversity of judgments, yet all agree that there are heavens, sun,
planets; so all the contentions among men about the nature of God,
weaken not, but rather coniirm, that there isa God, since there was
never a public formal debate about his existence! Those that have
been ready to pull out one another’s eyes for their dissent from their
judgments, sharp? censured one another’s sentiments, envied the
births of one anot er’s wits, always shook hands with an unanimous
consent in this; never censured one another for being of this persua-
sion, never called it into question; as what was never controverted
among men professing Christianity, but acknowledged by all, though
contending about other things, has reason to be judged a certain
truth belonging to the christian religion; .so what was never sub~
gicted to any controversy, but acknowledged by the whole world,
th reason to be embraced as a truth without any doubt.
4. This universal consent is not prejudiced by some few dissenters.
History doth not reckon twenty professed atheists in all ages in
the compass of the whole world: and we have not the name of an
one absolute atheist upon record in Scripture; yet it is questionedj
'whether any of them, noted in history with that infamous name, were
downright deniers of the existence of God, but rather because they
disparaged the deities commonly worshipped by the nations where
they lived, as being of a clearer reason to discern that those qualiti
vulgarly attributed to their gods, as lust and luxury, wantonness ahh
quarrels, were unworthy of the nature of a god." But sup ose they
were really what they are termed to be, what are they to ihe multi-
tude of men that have sprung out of the loins of Adam? not so much
as one grain of ashes is to all that were ever turned into that form
by any Hres in your chimneys. And many more were not suilicient
to weigh down the contrary consent of the whole world, and bear
' Amyrant des Religion, _ 50. * G I. h 1, lib ` . 2. .29l,
'Gsssend.Phys.§l1ib.i:r.e.7.p.2B2. ww §y&§ I" P

