THE EXISTENCE OF GOD.  
down an universal impression. Should the laws of a country, agreed
universally to b the whole body of the people, be accounted vain,
because an huncied men of those millions disapprove of them, when
not their reason, but their folly and base interest, persuades them to
dislike them and diarte against them? What if some men be blind?
shall any conclude m thence that eyes are not natural to men
shall we say that the notion of the existence of God is not natural to
men, because a very small number have been of a. contrary opinion ?
shall a man in a. dungeon, that never saw the sun, deny that there
is a sun, because one or two blind men tell him there is none, when
thousands axure him there is! Whishould then the exceptions of
a few, not one to millions, discredit t which is voted certainly true
by the joint consent of the world? Add this, too, that if those that
are re rted to be atheists had had any considerable reason to step
aside grim the common persuasion of t e whole world it is a wonder
itmet not with entertainment by great numbers of those, who, by
reason of their notorious wickedness and inward disquiets, might
rasonably be thought to wish in their hearts that there were no
God. It is strange if there were any reason on their side, that in so
long a space of time as hath run out from the creation of the world,
there could not be engaged a considerable number to frame a society
br the profession of it. It hath died with the person that started it,
and vanished as soon as it apipeared.
To conclude this, is it not olly for any man to deny or doubt of
the being ofa God, to dissent from all mankind, and stand in con-
tradiction to human nature? What is the general dictate of nature
is a. certain truth. It is érgpomible that nature can naturally and
Imiversall lie. And th ore those that ascribe all to nature, and
et it in the place of God, contradict themselves, if they give not
credit to it in that which it universally aiiirms. A general consent
of all nations is to be esteemed as a law of nature! Nature cannot
plant in the minds of all men an assent to a falsity, for then the laws
plf nature would be dlestmctgle to the rplasgg and minds of men.
ow is it possible, t at a sity s oul a 'on spread
through all nations, engraven upon the minds of all men, men of the
most towering, and men of the most creeping understanding; that
they should consent to it in all places, and m those places where the
nations have not had any known commerce with the rest of the
known world? a consent not settled by any law of man to constrain
people to a belief of it: and indeed it is im 'ble that any law of
man can constrain the belief of the mind. W ould not he deserved]
be accounted a fool, that should deny that to be gold which hath
been tried and examined b a great number of knowing goldsmitlg?
and hath passed the test oi, all their touch-stones ?' What excess
iilly would it be for him to deny it to be true gold, if it had been
tried by all that had skill in that metal in all nations in the world!
Secondly, It hath been a constant and uninterrupted consent. It
huh bgen as ancient as the first age of the world; no man is able to
memion any time, 'from the beginning of the world, wherein this
mga” hath not been universally owned; it is as old as mankind,
¢ qggmd. ibid. p. 290. I Cioem.
vor.. 1.-3

