34 cnannocx ON me Arrmnurss. /
and hath nm along with the course of the sim, nor can the date be
fixed lower than that.
1. In all the changes of the world, this hath been maintained. In
the overtumings of the government of states, the alteration of modes
of worship, this hath stood unshaken. The reasons upon which it
was founded were, in all revolutions of time, accounted satisfactory
and convincing, nor could absolute atheism in the changes of any
laws ever gain the favor of any one body of people to be established
by a law. When the honor of the heathen idols was laid in the dust,
this suffered no impair. The being of one God was more vigorously
owned when the unreasonableness of multiplicity of gods was mam-
fest; and grew taller by the detection of counterfeits. When other
arts of the law of nature have been violated by some nations, this
hath maintained its standing. The long series of ages hath been so
far from blotting it out, that it hath more strongly confirmed it, and
maketh further progress in the confirmation of it. Time, which hath
eaten out the strength of other things, and blasted mere inventions,
hath not been able to consume this. The discovery of all other im-
postures, never made this by any society of men to be suspected as
one. It will not be eas to name any imposture that hath walked
erpetually in the world without being discovered, and whipped out
by some nation or other. Falsities have never been so universally
and constantly owned without public control and question. And
since the world hath detected many errors of the former age, and
learning been increased, this hath been so far 'from being dimmed,
that it hath shone out clearer with the increase of natural knowledge,
and received fresh and more vigorous conirmations.
2. The fears and anxieties in the consciences of men have given
men suiiicient occasion to root it out, had it been ossible for them
to do it. If the notion of the existence of God” had) been possible to
have been dashed out of the minds of men, they would have done it
rather than have suffered so many troubles in their souls u on the
commission of sin; since there did not want wickedness and) wit in
so .many corrupt ages to have attempted it and prospered in it, had
it been possible. How comes it therefore to pass, that such a multi-
tude of profligate persons that have been in the world since the fall
of man, should not have rooted out this principle, and dispossessed
the minds of men of that which gave birth to their tormenting fears?
How is it possible that all should agree together in a thing which
created fear, and an obligation against the interest of th> flesh, if it
had been free for men to discharge themselves of it? QB) man,
far as corrupt nat1u°e bears sway in him, is willing to live controlled.
The Brst man would rather be a god himself than under one:
why should men continue this notion in them, which shackled them
in their vile inclinations, if it had been in their power utterly to de-
face it? If it were an imposture, how comes it to pass, that all the
wicked ages of the world could never discover that to be a cheat,
which kept them in continual alarms? Men wanted not will to shake
off such apprehensions; as Adam, so all his posterity are desirous to
hide themselves from God upon the commission of sin,° and by the
' Gen. iii. 5. ‘ Gen. iii. 9.

