'ma sxrsrnncm or con. H 85
same reason they would_hide God from their souls. What is the
reason they coul never attain their will and their wish by all their
endeavors Could they possibl have satisfied themselvw that there
were no God, they had discarded their fears, the disturbers of the re-
pose of their lives, and been uhbridled in their pleasures. The wick-
edness of the world would never have preserved that which was a
peapetual molestation to it, had it been possible to be razed out.
ut since men under the turmoils and lashes of their own con
sciences could never bring their hearts to a settled dissent from this
truth, it evidenceth, that as it took its birth at the beginning of the
world, it cannot expire, 'no not'in the ashes of it, nor in anything
but the reduction of the soul to that nothing from whence it sprung.
This conception is so perpetual, that the nature of the soul must be
dissolved before it be rooted out, nor can it be extinct while the soul
endures. -
3. Let it be considered also by us that own the Seri ture, that the
devil deems it impossible to root out this sentiment. lit seems to be
so perpetually fixed, that the devil did not think fit to tempt man to'
the denial of the existence of a Deity, but persuaded him to believe
he might ascend to that di 'ty and become a god himself; Gen.  
1, “ Hath God said ?" anddid there owns him (ver. 5), “ Ye shall be-
come as gods.” He owns God in the question he asks the woman,
and persuades our Hrst parents to be gods themselves. And in all
stories, both ancient and modern, the devil was never able to tincture
men’s minds with a. professed denial of the Deity, which would have
opened a door to a. world of more wickedness than hath been acted,
and took away the bar to the breaking out of that evil, which is
naturally in the hearts of men, to the greater prejudice of human
societies. He wanted not malice to raze out all the notions of God,
but power: he knew it was im ossible to effect it, and therefore in
vain to attempt it. He set up himself in several places of the igno-
rant world as a god, but never was able to overthrow the opinion of
the being of a God. The impressions of a Deity were so strong as
not to be struck out by the malice and power of ell.
What a folly is it then in any to contradict or doubt of this truth,
which all the periods of time have not been able to wear out; which
all the wars and uarrels of men with their own consciences have
not been able to dlestroy; which ignorance and debauchery, its two
greatest enemies, cannot weaken; which all the falsehoods and errors
which have reigned in one or other part of the world, have not been
able to banish; which lives in the consents of men in spite of all
their wishes to the contrary, and hath grown stronger, and shone
clearer, by the improvements of natural reason!
Thirdly, Natural and innate; which pleads strongly for the per-
petuity of it. It is natlual, though some think it not a principle  
in the heart of man ;b it is so natural that every man is born with
restless instinct to be of some kind of religion or other, which implies
some object of religion. The impression of a Deity is as common as
reason, and of the same age with reason.° It is a relic of knowledge
after the fall of Adam, like fire under ashes, which sparkles as soon
* Pink. Eph. 6, p. 10, 11. ' King on Jonah, p. IB.

