86 cniumocx ON rim Arrninurns.
as ever the heap of ashes is o ened. A notion sealed up in the soul
of every man ;‘i else how could those people who were unknown to
one another, separate by seas and mounts, differing in various cus-
toms and manner of living, had no mutual intelligence one with
another, light upon this as a common sentiment, if they had not been
guided b one uniform reason in all their minds, by one nature com-
mon to them all: though their climates be diiferent, their tempers
and constitutions various, their imaginations in some things as distant
from one another as heaven is from earth, the ceremonies of their
religion not all of the same kind; yet wherever you find human
nature, you find this settled persuasion. So that the notion of a God
seems to be twisted with the nature of man, and is the Hrst natural
branch of common reason, or upon either the first inspection of a man
into himself and his own state and constitution, or upon the Hrst
sight of any external visible object. Nature within man, and natiue
without man, agree upon the first meeting together to form this sen-
timent, that there is a God. It is as natural as anything we call a
common principle. One thing which is called a common rinciple
and natural is, that the whole is greater than the parts. § this be
not born with us, yet the exercise of reason essential to man settles
it as a certain maxim; upon the dividing anything into several parts,
he finds every part less than when they were altogether. By the
same exercise o reason, we cannot cast our eyes upon anything in
the world, or exercise our understandings upon ourselves, but we
must presently imagine, there was some cause of those things, some
cause of myself and my own being; so that this truth is as natural
to man as anything he can call most natural or a common principle.
It must be confessed by all, that there is a law of nature writ upon
the hearts of men, which will direct them to commendable actions,
if they will attend to the writing in their own consciences. This law
cannot be considered without the notice of a Lawgiver. For it is but
a natural and obvious conclusion, that some superior hand engrafied
those principles in man, since he finds something in him twitching
him upon the ursuit of uncomely actions, though his heart be
mighti y inclined to them; man knows he never planted this princi-
ple of reluctancy in his own soul; he can never be the cause of that
which he cannot be friends with. If he were the cause of it, why
doth he not rid himself of it? No man would endure a thing that
doth frequently molest and disquiet him, if he could cashier it. It
is therefore sown in man by some hand more powerful than man,
which xiseth so high, and is rooted so strong, that all the force that
man can use cannot pull it up. If therefore this princi le be natural
inman, and the law of nature be natural, the notion oi) a Lawgiver
must be as natural, as the notion of a printer, or that there is a prin-
ter, is obvious upon the sight of a stamp impressed. After this the
multitude of effects in the world step in to strengthen this beam of
natural light, and the direct conclusion from thence is, that that
power which made those outward objects, im lanted this inward
princi le. This is sown in us, born with us, andp sprouts up with our
growth, or as one saith; it is like letters carved upon the bark of a
_ 4 Amyrant des Religions, p. 6-9.

