'rim nxrsrsscs or son. 82
young plant, which grows up together with us, and the longer it grows
the letters are more egible.° - _
This is the ground of this universal consent, and why it may well
he termed natural. This will more evidently appear to be natural.,
1. This consent could not be by mere tradition. 2. Nor b any
mutual intelligence of governors to keep people in awe, which are
two   the atheist pleads; the first hath no strong foundation,
and that other is as absurd and foolish as it is wicked and abominaf
hle. 3. Nor was it fear Hrst introduced it.
First, It could not be by mere tradition. Many things indeed are
entertained by posterity which their ancestors delivered to them, and
that out of a common reverence to their forefathers, and an opinion
that .they had a better prospect of things than the increase of the
corruption of succeeding ages would permit them to have. But if
this he a tradition handed from our ancestors, they also must receive
rtfrom theirs; we must then ascend to the first man, we cannot
else esca? a. confounding ourselves with running into infinite. Was
it then t e only tradition he left to them? Is it not probable he
acquainted them with other things in conjunction with this, the
nature of God, the way to worship him, the manner of the world’s
eince, his own state? We may reasonably sup ose him to have
a good stock of knowledge; what is become of rtii It cannot be
mpposed, that the first man should acquaint his posterity with an
ohjcct of worship, and leave them ignorant of a mode of worship
and of the end of worship. We find in Scripture his immediate
posterity did the first in sacrifices, and without doubt they were not
ignorant of the other: how come men to be so uncertain in all other
mini and so confident of this, if it were only a tradition? How
did hates and irreconcilable questions start 13; concerning other
thing, and this remain rmtouched, but by a sm number? What-
seever tradition the Hrst man left besides this, is lost, and no Wa
recoverable, but by the revelation God hath made in his Word
How comes it to pam this of a God is longer lived than all the rest
which we may suppose man left to his immediate descendants? How
come men to retain the one and forget the other? What was the
rason this survived the ruin of the rest, and surmounted the uncer-
hinties into which the other sunk? Was it likely it should be
handed down alone without other attendants on it at Hrst? Why
did it not expire among the\Americans, who_have lost the account
of their own descent, and the stock from whence they sprung, and
Cannot reckon above eight hundred or a thousand years at most?
was not the manner of the worship of a God transmitted as
yglllyg gmt gf his existence? How came men to dissent in their
qinbns concerning his nature, whether he was corporeal or incor-
PQML anim 0ri11fi11ll'»6, omnipresent or limited? Why were not men
. nt tg transmit this of his existence as that of his nature?
Ko mn can be rendered for the security of this above the other,
mth# there is so clear a tincture of a Deity upon the minds of
un’ ,wh graces and shadows of him in the creatures, such indelible
~ ° Gharleton.
I

