38 cnalmocx ON 'rm-: A'rrnmU'r1-ss.
instincts within, and invincible arguments without to keep up this
universal consent. The characters are so deep that they cannot
possibly be rased out, which would have been one time or other, in
one nation or other, had it depended only upon tradition, since one
age shakes off frequently the sentiments of the former. I cannot
think of above one which may be called a tradition, which indeed
was kept up among all nations, viz. sacrifices, which could not be
natural but instituted. Vifhat ground could they have in nature, to
imagine that the blood of beasts could expiate and wash off the guilt
and stains of a rational creature? Yet they had in all places (but
among the Jews, and some of them only) lost the knowledge of the
reason and end of the institution, which the Scripture acquaints us
was to t pify and signify the redemption by the Promised Seed.
This tradition hath been superannuated and laid aside in most.parts
of the world, while this notion of the existence of a God hath stood
iirm. But suppose it were a tradition, was it likely to be a mere
intention and figment of the first man? Had there been no reason for
it, this posterity would soon have found out the weakness of its foun-
dation. W`hat advantage had it been to him to transmit so greata
falsehood to kindle the fears or raise the hopes of his posterity, if
there were no God? It cannot be supposed he should be so void
of that natural affection men in all ages bear to their descendants,
as so grossly to deceive them, and be so contrary to the simplicity
and plainness which appears in all things nearest their original.
Secondly, Neither was it by any mutual intelligence of governors
among themselves to keep people in subjection to them. If it were
a political design at first, it seems it met with the general nature of
mankind very ready to give it entertainment.
1. It is unaccountable how this should come to pass. _It must be
either by a joint assembly of them, or a mutual correspondence. If
by an assembly, who were the persons? Let the name of any one
be mentioned. When was the time? Where was the place of this
appearance? By what authority did they meet together? Who
made the first motion, and first started this great rinciple of polio '?
By what means could they assemble from such distant parts of the
world? Human histories are utterly silent in it, and the Scri ture,
the ancientest histo , gives an account of the attempt of Babel, but
not a word of any ldsesign of this nature. What mutual correspon-
dence could such have, whose interests are for the most art differ-
ent, and their designs contrary to one another? How could) they, whc
were divided by such vast seas, have this mutual converse? How
could those who were different in their customs and manners, agree
so unanimously together in one thing to ll the people? If there
had been such a correspondence between ti; governors of all nations,
what is the reason some nations should be unknown to the world
till of late times? How could the business be so secretly managed,
as not to take vent, and issue in a discovery to the world? Can
reason suppose so many in a joint conspiracy, and no man`s con-
science in his life under sharp atiiictions, or on his death-bed, when
conscience is most awakene , constrain him to reveal openlythe
cheat that beguiled the world? How came they to be so unanimous

