THE Exrsrnncn or son. 39
in this notion, and to differ in their rites almost in every country?
why could they not agree in one mode of worship throughout all
the world, as well as in this universal notion? If there were not a
mutual intelligence, it cannot be conceived how in every nation such
a state-engineer should rise up with the same trick to keep people in
awe. What is the reason We cannot ‘rind any law in any one nation
to constrain men to the belief of the existence of a God, since politic
stratagems have been* often fortijied by laws? Besides, such men
make use of ‘principles received to effect their contrivances, and are
not so impo itic as to build designs u n princi les that have no
foundation in nature. Some heathen l)=i)w vers have pretended a
converse with their gods, to make their §ws be received by the
people with a greaterxveneration, and fix with stronger obligation
the observance and pe etuity of them; but this was not the intro-
ducing a new principle:-but the supposition of an old received notion,
that t ere was a God, and an apiplication of that principle to their
present design. The pretence h been vain had not the notion of a
God been in _ Politicians are so little ossessed with a rev-
erence of G that the first might one in the §:ripture (which may
reasonably ,gain with the atheist the credit of the ancientest history
in the worl ), is represented without any fear of Godf An invader
and oppressor of his neighbors, and reputed the introducer of a new
worship, and bein the first that built cities after the flood (as Cain
was the first buil¢§er of them before the Hood), built also idolatry
with them, and erected a new worshi , and was so far from strength-
ening that notion the people had of (lied, that he endeavored to cor-
rupt it. The first i olatry in common histories bein noted to
roceed from that part of the world; the ancientest id<5 being at
Bah lon, and supposed to be nrst invented by this person: whence,
by the way, perhaps Rome is in the Revelations called Babylon, with
respect to that similitude of their saintfworship, to the idolatry first
set up in that fplace.s ’Tis evident politicians have often chanfged
the worship o a nation, but it is 'not upon record that the rst
thou hts of an object of worship ever entered into the minds of
people by any trick of theirs.
But to return to the present argument, the being of a God is
owned by some nations that have scarce any form of policy among
them. "l‘is as wonderful how any wit should hit upon such an
invention, as it is absurd to ascribe it to any human device, if there
were not prevailing arguments to constrain the consent. Besides,
how is it possible they should deceive themselves? VVhat is the
reason the greatest politicians have their fears of a Deity upon their
unjust practices, as well as other men they intend to befool? How
many of them have had fbrlorn consciences upon a death-bed, upon
the consideration of a God to answer an account to in another wor d?
Is it credible the should be frighted by that wherewith they knew
they beguiled otliers? No man satisfying his pleasures would im-
' Gen. x. 9. “ Nimrod was a mighty hunter before the Lord. I Or if we understand
it as some think, that he defended his invasions under a pretext nf the preservi religion,
it usures us that there was a notion of an object of religion before, since no xligion can
be without an object of worship.

