40 CHARNOCK ON 'rim ATTRIBUTES.
pose such a deceit upon himself to render and make himself more
miserable than the creatures he hath dominion over.
2. It is unaccountable how it should endure so long a time ; that
this policy should be so fortunate as to gain ground in the con-
sciences of men, and exercise an empire over them, and meet with
such an universal success. If the notion of a God were a state-
engine, and introduced by some political grandees, for the ease of
government, and preserving peop e with morl facility in order, how
comes it to pass the first broachers of it were never upon record?
There is scarce a false opinion vented in the world, but may, as a
stream, be traced to the first head and fountain. The inventors of
particular forms of worship are known; and the reasons why they
rescribed them known; ut what andee was the author of this?
eVho can pitch a time and person tiiat sprung up this notion? If
any be so insolent as to impose a cheat, he can hardlfy be supposed
to be so successful as to deceive the whole world or many ages:
impostures pass not free through the whole world without examina-
tion and discovery: falsities have not been universally and constantly
owned without control and question. If a cheat imposeth upon some
towns and countries, he will be found out by the more piercing in-
ui1'ies of other places; and it is not easylto name any imposture
iliat hath walked so long in its   in t e world, without bein
unmasked and whip d out by some nation or other. If this has
been a mere trick, tliiire woul have been as much craft in some to
discern it as there was in others to contrive it. No man can be
imagined so wise in a kingdom, but others may be found as wise as
himself: and it is not conceivable, that so many clear-sighted men
in all ages should be ignorant of it, and not endeavour to free the
world from so great a falsity. It cannot be found that a trick of
state should always begu` e men of the most piercing insights, as
well as the most credulous: that a few crafty men should befool all
the wise men in the world, and the world lie in a belief of it and
never like to be freed from it.h ' What is the reason the succeeding
politicians never knew this stratagem; since their maxims are usually
anded to their successorsi
This persuasion of the existence of God, owes not itself to any im-
posture or subtility of men: if it had not been agreeable to common
nature and reason, it could not so long have borne sway. The im-
posed yoke would have been cast off by multitudes; men would not
ave c arged themselves with that which was attended with conse-
quences displeasing to the flesh, and hindered them from a full swin
of their rebellious passions; such a shackle would have mouldere§
of itself; or been broke by the extravagances human nature is inclined
unto. The wickedness of men, without question, hath rompted
them to endeavour to unmask it, if it were a cosenage, hut could
never yet be so successful as to free the world from a persuasion, or
their own consciences from the tincture of the existence of a Deity.
It must be therefore of an ancienter date than the craft of statesmen,
and descend into the world with the first appearance of human na-
- \ Fotherb de Theomastix, p. 64. ‘ And there is not a Riohlieu but leaves hil
axioms to a iiuarine.
/

