'mm nxrsrnncn or son. 41
hm.. Time, which hath rectified many errors, improves this notion,
makes it shock down its room deeper and read its branches large” .
lt mustbe a. natural truth that shines scsear by the detection o
those errors that have befooled the world, and the wit of man is
never able to name any human author that first insinuated it into the
beliefs of men.
Thirdly, Nor was it fear first introduced it. Fear is the conse-
quent of wickedness. As man was not created with mg inherent
sin, so he was not created with any terrifying fears; e one had
been against the holiness of the Creator, the other against his good-
nw: fear did not make this opinion, but the opinion of the being of
aDeit{ was the cause of this fear, after his sense of angering the
Deity y his wickednes. The object of fear is before the act of
fear; there could not be an act of fear exercised about the Deity, till
it wasbelieved to be existent, and not only so, but oifended: for God
asexistent only, is notthe object of fear or love; it is not the ex-
istence of a.   that excites any of those afections, but the relation
a thing bears to us in particular. God is good, and so the object of
love, as well as just, and thereb the object of fear. He was as much
called Love,\= and Maw, or Mind? in regard of his goodness and un-
desmanding, by the heathens, as much as by any other name.
Neither of those names were proper to insinuate fear; neither was
fear the first rinciple that made the heathens worship a God; they
ofered   out of gratitude to some, as well as to other, out of
fear; the fear of evils in the world, and the hopes of relief and
asistanee from their gods, and not a terrif ing fear of God,
was the rincipal sp ` of their worship. When calamities irom
the han£ of men, or enm by the iniluences of Heaven were
upon them, they impllo that which they thought a. deity; it was
not their fear of him, but a hope in his goodness, and persuasion of
remedy from him, for the averting those evils that rendered them
adorers of a God: if they had not had pre-existin notions of his
being and goodness, they would never have made agdresses to him,
or so 6-emgéetritly sought to that they only ap rehended as a terrifying
objecttl en you ear men calling upon (god in a time of aiiright-
ingthunder, you cannot i ' that the fear of thunder did first
introduce the notion of a Go? but implies, that it was before appre-
hended by them, or stam d upon them, though their fear doth at
prment actuate that belietiind engage them in a present exercise of
piety; and Whereas the Scripture saith, “The fear of God is the be-
' ' of wisdom,”'=\ or of all religion; it is not understood of a
 §ed and terrifying fear, but a reverential fear of him, because
of his holiness; or a worship of him, a submision to him, and sincere
$511 of him.
Weg, then, is it not a folly for an atheist to deny that which is the
reason and common sentiment of the Whole world; to strip himself
of humanity, run counter to his own conscience, prefer a private be
ine an universal judgnent, ave the lie to his own nature and reason,
it   impossi le to proved, nay, impossible to be acted,
forge irrationalities for the support of his fancy against the common
*Egg-_ I Gassend-Phys.§1.lib.iv.e.2.p.291, 292. 'Pi-ov.ix.10.Pss1mui.10

