42 crmnnocx on THE ATTRIBUTES. _
persuasion of the world, and against himself; and so much of God al
18 manifest in him and every man 'PH
Q Reason II. It is a folly to deny that which all creatures or all
things in the world manifest.° Let us view this in Scripture, since
we acknowledge it, and after consider the arguments from natural
reason.
The apostle resolves it fgtom. i. 19, 20), “The invisible things of
him from the creation of e-world are clearly seen, being understood
by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead,
so that they are without excuse." They know, or might know, by
the things that were made, the eternity) and power of God; their
sense might take a circuit about every o ject, and their minds collect
the being and something of the perfections of the Deity. The first
discourse of the mind upon the sight of a delicate piece of workman-
ship, is the conclusion of the being of an artificer, and the admiration
of his skill and industry. The apostle doth not say, the invisible
things of God are believed, or they have an opinion of them, but they
are seen, and clearly seen. They are like crystal glasses, which give
a clear representation of the existence of a Deity, like that mirror,
reported to be in a temple in Arcadia, which represented to the
spectator, not ` own face, but the image of that deitylwhich he
worshipped. The whole world is like a looking-glam, w 'ch, whole
and entire, represents the image of God, and every broken piece of
it, every little shred ofa creatine doth the like; not only t e great
ones, ele hants and the leviathan, but ants, flies, worms, whose bodies
rather tllan names we know: the greater cattle and the creeping
things (Gen. i. 24), not naming there any intermediate creature, to
direct us to view him in the smaller letters, as well as the greater
characters of the world. His name is “ glorious,” and hi-s attributes
are excellent “in all the earth;”P in eve creature, as the glory of
the sun is in every beam and smaller flasq; he is seen in every in-
sect, in every spire of gras. The voice of the Creator is in the most
contemptible creature. The apostle adds, that they are so clearly
seen, that men are inexcusable if they have not some knowledge of
God by them; if they might not certainly know them, they might
have some excuse: so that his existence is not only robably, but
demonstratively proved from the things of the worlds;
Especially the eavens declare him, which God “ s -retches out like
a curtain,”' or, as some render the word, a “skin,” whereby is signi-
fied, that heaven is as an open book, which was anciently made of
the skins of beasts, that by the knowledge of them we may be taught
the knowledge of God. Where Scripture was not revealed, the
world served for a witness of a God; whatever arguments the Seri
ture uses to prove it, are drawn from nature (though, indeed, it desi
not so much prove as suppose the existence -of a God); but what
arguments it uses are from the creatures, and particularly the heavens,
which are the ublic reachers of this doctrine. The breath of God
sounds to all the world through those organ-pipes. His being is visi-
ble in their existence, his wisdom in their frame, his power in their
I Rom i. 19. ' Jupiter est quodcunque vides, clzo. 9 Psalm viii. 1.
q Banca in Aquin. Par. 2. Qu. 2. Artic. 2. p. 78. ooL 2. ' Psalm eiv. 2

