'rms Exrsrnncrz or son. 48
motion, his goodnessrin their usefulness. They have a voice, and
their voice is as intelligible as an common langu,age.' And those
are so plain heralds of a Deity, that the heathen mistook them for
deities, and gave them a ggticular adoration, which was due to
that God they declared. e first idolat seems to be of those
heavenly bodies, which began probabl in ge time of Nimrod. In
Iob’s time it is certain they admired tiie glory of the sun, and the
brightn  of the moon, not without kissing their hands, a sign of
adoration! It is evident a man .may as well doubt whether there be
1 sun, when he sees his beams gildin the earth, as doubt whether
there be a God, when he sees his woris spread in the world.
The things in the world declare the existence of a God. 1. In
their production. 2. Harmony. 3. Preservation. 4. Answering
their several ends.
First, In their roduction. The declaration of the existence of
God was the chiefp end for which the were created, that the notion
of a supreme and independent Eternal' Being might easier incur into
the active understanding of man from the objects of sense, disipersed
in every corner of the world, that he might pay a homage an devo-
tion to the Lord of all (Isai. xl. 12, 13, 18, 19, &c.), “Have you not
understood from the foundation of `the earth, it is he that sits upon
the circle of the heaven,” &c. How could this great heap be brought
into being, unless a God had framed it? Every plant, every atom,
as well as every star, at the first meeting, whis rs this in our ears,
“I have a Creator; I am witness to a Deity." 'who ever saw statues
or pictures but presently thinks of a statuar and limner? Who
beholds garments, ships, or houses, but und):-:rstands there was a
weaver, a carpenter, an architect ?“ Who can cast his eyes about
the world, but must think of that power that formed it, and that the
goodness which appears in the formation of it hath a perfect residence
in some being? “ Those things that are good must ilow_ from some-
thing perfectly good: that which is chief in an kind is the cause of
all of that kind. Fire, which is most hot, is the cause of all things
which are hot. There is some being, therefore, which is the cause
of all that perfection which is in the creature; angr this is God."
(Again. 1 qu. 2. Artic.'3.) All things that are demons ate something
from whence they are. All things have a contracted perfection, an
what they have is communicated to them. Perfdztions are parcelled
out among several creatures. Anythin that is imperfect cannot
exist of itself. We are led, therefore, by diem to consider a. fountain
which bubbles up in all perfection; a hand which distributes those
several degrees of being and perfection to what we see. We see that
which is imperfect; our minds conclude something perfect to exist
beibre it. Our eye sees the streams, but our understanding riseth to
the head; as the eye sees the shadow, but the understanding informs
us whether it be the shadow of a man or of a beast.
God hath given us sense to behold the objects in the world, and
understanding to reason his existence from them. The understand-
ing cannot conceive a thing to have made itself; that is against all
¢ '-For their voice goeth to the end of the earth,” Psalm xix. 1, 2. * J ob xxxi. 26, 27.
| phjlp, ex Petav. Theolo. Dog. Tom. I. lib. i. e. 1, p. 4, somewhat changed. `

