44 clmnuocx ON 'mn Arramnrras.
reason. As they are made, they speak out a Maker# and cannot be
a trick of chance, since they are made with such an immense wisdom,
that is too big for the grasp of all human understanding. Those
that doubt whether the existence of God be an implanted principle,
yet agree that the effects in the world lead to a supreme and universal
cause; and that if we have not the knowledge of it rooted in our
natures, yet we have it by discourse; since, by all masters of reason,
a processus in injinitum must be accounted impossible in subordinate
causes. This will appear in severalthings.
I. The world and every creature had a. beginning. The Scripture
ascertains this to us.Y David, who was not the Hrst man, gives the
praise to God of his being “curiously wrought," &c. (Ps. cxxxix. 14, 15.)
God gave being to men, and plants, and beasts, before they gave
bein to one another. He gives being to them now as the Fountain
of all being, though the several modes of being are from the several
natures of second causes.
It is true, indeed, we are ascertained that they were made by the
true God; that they were made by his word; that they were made
of nothing; and not only this lower world wherein we live, but,
accordin to the Jewish division, the world of men, the world of
stars, and the world of spirits and souls. We do not waver in it, or
doubt of it, as the heathen did in their dis utes; we know the are
the workmanship of the true God, of that (god we adore, not oflfalse
gods; “by his word,” without any instrument or engine, as in earthly
structures; “of things which do not appear,” without any re-existent
matter, as all artificial works of men are framed. Yet the proof of
the be ` ing of the world is aihrmed with good reason; and if it
had aT:z1g1inning, it had also some higher cause than itself: every
effect hath a cause.
The world was not eternal, or from eternity! The matter of the
world cannot be eternal. Matter cannot subsist without form, nor
ppt on any form without the action of some cause. This cause must
in being before it acted; that which is not cannot act. The cause
of the world must necessarilfy exist before any matter was endued
with any form; that, there ore, cannot be eternal before which
another did subsist; if it were from eternity, it would not be subject
to mutation. If the whole was from eternity, why not also the parts;
what makes the changes so visible, then, if eternity would exempt it
from mutability?
1. Time cannot be infinite, and, therefore, the world not eternal.
All motion hath its beginning; if it were otherwise, we must say the
number of heavenly revolutions of days and nigléts, which are ast
to this instant, is actually infinite, which cannot in nature! lf it
were so, it must needs be granted that a part is equal to the whole;
because infinite being equal to innnite, the number of da s past, in
all ages to the beginning of one year being infinite (as they would
be, supposing) the world had no be ` ning) would b consequence
be equal to t e number of days whiin shall pass to the end of the
' Rom. i. 20. 1 Gen. i. “ By iixith we understand that the worlds were framed by
She word of God.” 4m Heb. xi. 8.
' Daille 20. Serm. Psalm cii. 26. p. 18, 14. ° Daille, ut supra.

