ma Exrsrsncn or con. ` 45
next; whereas that number of days past is indeed but a part; and so
a part would be ual to the whole.
2. Generationsecbf men, animals, and plants, could not be from
eterni& If any man say the world was from eternity, then there
must. propagations of living creatiues in the same manner as are
atthis da ; or without this the world could not consist.” What we
see now done must have been perpsiually done, if it be done by a
necessity of nature; but we see not ` g now that doth arise but b
a mutual propagation from another. If the world were eternal
therefore, it must be so in all eternity. Take any particular species.
Suppose a man, if men were from eternity ; then there were perpetual
generations-some were born into the world, and some died. Now
the natural condition of eneration is, that a man doth not generate
a man, nor a sheep a lamb, as soon as ever itself is brought into the
world; buteget strength and vigor by degrees, and must arrive to a
certain sta age be ore they can produce the like; for whilst any-
thing is little an below the due , it cannot increase its kind. Men,
therefore, and other creatures,   ropagate their kind by the same
law, not as soon as ever they were Ihorn, but in the interval of some
time; and children grew u b de es in the mother’s womb till
they were fit to be brought     be so, then there could not
be an eternal succession of propagating; for there is no eternal con-
tinuation of time. Time is always to be conceived as having one
part before another; but that pe tuity of nativities is always after
some time, wherein it could not]-bi; for the weakness of age. If no
man, then., can conceive a propagation from eternity, there must be
then a  g of generation in time, and, consequently, the crea-
tures were e in time.
“If the world were eternal, it must have been in the salme posture
as it is now in a state of ncration an corru tion- an so corru
tion must liave been as geernal as generation?) and then thinags thiit
do generate and corrupt must have eternally been and etern ly not
have been: there must be some first way to set generation on w1ork.”°
We must lose ourselves in our conceptions; we cannot conceive a
father before a child, as well as we cannot conceive a child before a
Either : and remoriistgluite bewildered, and cannot return into a right
way of conception, ` it conceive one first of every kind: one first
man, one first animal, one first plant, from whence others do proceed.
The arguglneelnt is unanswerable, anti the wisest atheist (if any atheist
can be ca wise cannot unloose e knot. We must come to some-
thing that is first in every kind, and this first must have a cause, not
of the same     infinite anéi inderflndent; otherwise men run
into inconceiva e a ` ths an contr ictions.
Man, the noblest crehhmrre upon earth, hath a beginning. No man in
the world but was some years ago no man. If every man we see had
s beginning, then the first man had also a beginning, then the world
had 3 beginning: for the earth, which was made for the use of man,
had wanted that end for which it was made. We must pietch upqn
some one man that was unborn; that first man must either eterna ;
gm cannot be, for he that hath no beginning hath no end; or must
l Pqy, Theo. Dogmah Tom. I. lib. i. e. 2. p. 15: ° Wolseley, on Atheism, p. 47.

