46 cnnmocx ON 'mn Arrrmnrras.
  out of the earth as plants and trees do ;‘1 that cannot be; why
s oul not the earth produce men to this day, as it doth plants and
trees? He.was therefore made; and whatsoever is made hath some
cause that made it, which is God. 'If the world were uncreated, it
were then immutable, but every creatine upon the earth is in a con-
tinual flux, always changing :° if things be mutable, they were
created; if created, they were made b some author: whatsoever
hath a beginning must have a maker;  the world hath a beginning,
there was then a time when it was not; it must have some cause to
produce it. That which makes is before that which is made, and
this is God. '
II. Which will ap further in this prolposition, No creatine can
make itself; the worlidad-ould not make itse .
Ifevery man had a beginning, every man then was once nothing;
he could not then make himself, because nothing cannot be the cause
of something; ‘The Lord he is God; he_ hath made us, and not we
ourselves.’ (Ps. c. 3.) Whatsoever begun in time was not; and when
it was nothing, it had nothing, and gpuld do nothing; and therefore
could never give to itself, nor to any other, to be, or to be able to
do: for then it gave what it had not, and did what it could not.
Since reason must acknowledge a Erst of every kind, a iirst man, &c.,
it must acknowledge him created and made, not by himself :f why have
not other men since risen up by themselves, not by chance? why
hath not chance produced the like in that long time the world hat
stood? If we never knew an thing give being to itself, how can we
imagine anything ever could? If the chiefest part of this lower
world cannot, nor any part of it hath been known to give being to
itself; then the whole cannot be sup osed to give any being to itself:
man did not form himself; his bog is not from himself; it would
then have the power of moving itself, but that it is not able to live or
act without the resence of the soul. Whilst the soul is present, the
body moves; when that is absent, the bod lies as a senseless log,
not having the least action or motion. Ilia soul could not form
itself Can that which cannot form the least mote, the least grain
of dust, form itself a nobler substance than any upon the earth?
This will be evident to every man’s reason, if we wnsider,
1. Nothing can act before it be. The first man was not, and
therefore could not make himself to be. For ‘anything to produce
itself is to act; if it acted before it was, it was then something and
nothing at the same time; it then had a being before it had a being;
it acfe when it brought itself into being. How could it act without
a being, without it was? So that if it were the cause of itself it
must be before itself as well as after itself; it was before it was; it
was as a cause before it was as an effect. Action always supposeth
a plginciple from whence it Hows; as nothing hath no existence, so
it th no operation: there must be, there ore, something of real
existence to 've a being to those things that are, and every cause
must be an eéect of some other before it be a cause. To be and not
to be at the same time, is a manifest contradiction, which would be,
if anything made itself That which makes is always before that
3 Petav. ut supra, p. 10. ° Damason. ‘ Petav. 'I‘heo. Dog. Tom. I. lib. i. o. 2. p. li.

