'rim nxrsrnncs or son. 47
which is made. W'ho will say the house is before the carpenter, or
ieiicture before the limner? The world as a creator must be before
° as a creature.
2. That which doth not understand itself and order itself could
not make itseli If the iirst man fully understood his own nature,
the excellency of his own soul, the manner of its operations, why
was not that understanding conveyed to his posterity? Are not
many of them found, who understand their own nature, almost as
little as a beast understands itself; or a rose understands its own
sweetnes; or a tuli its own colors? The Sori ture,- indeed, gives
us an account how this came about, viz. by the de lorable rebellion
of man, whereby death was brought upon them dispiritual death,
which includes ignorance, as well as an nnabilit to spiritual actions)
Thus he fell from his honor, and became like the beasts that rish,
and not retaining God in his knowledge, retained not himselfpiix his
own knowledge. _ .
But what reply can an atheist make to it, who acknowledges no
higher cause than natxue? If the soul made itself how comes it ta
he so muddy, so wanting in its knowledge of itself, and of other
things? lf the soul made its own understanding, whence did the
defect arise? If some first principle was settled by the first man in
himself; where was the stop that he did not implant all in his own
mind. and, consequently in the minds of all his descendants? Our
souls know little of themselves little of the world, are every day upon
new inquiries, have little satisfaction in themselves, meet with many
an invincible rub in their way, and when they seem to come to some
resolution in some cases, stagger again, and, like a stone rolled up
to the top of the hill, quickly tind themselves again at the foot. How
come they to be so urblind in truth? so short of that which they
judge true goodness; How comes it to pass they cannot order their
own rebellious affections, and suffer the reins they have to hold over
their affections to be taken out of their hands by the unruly fancy
and flesh? This no man that denies the being of a God, and the
revelation in Scripture, can give an account of Blessed be God that
we have the Scripture, which gives us an account of those things, that
allthe wit of men could never inform us of; and that when they
are discovered and known by revelation, they appear not contrary
to reasonl -
3. If the firstman made himself; how came he to limit himself?
If he gave himself being, why did he not give himself all the per-
fections and ornaments of being? Nothing that made itself could
sit. down contented with a little, but would have had as much power
to 've itself that which is less, as to give itself being, when it was
' The excellences it wanted had not been more diiiicult to
' the other which it possessed, as belonging to its nat\u°e.
Elric first man had been inde ndent upon another, and had his
p&ction from himself he might have acquired that perfection he
wanted as well as have bestowed upon himself that perfection he
Ind; and then there would have een no bounds set to him. He
yqfd have been omniscient and immutable. He might have given
I Gm. ii. 17. Psalm xlix. 8.

