48 cmnuocx ON 'rim Arrnmurss.
himself what he would; if he had had the setting his own bounds,
he would have set none at all; for what should restrain him? No
man now wants ambition to be what he is not; and if the ‘dist man
had not been determined by another, but had given himself being,
he would not have remained in that determinate being, no more than
a toad would remain a toad, if it had ower to make itself a man,
and that power it would have had,  it had given itself a being.
Whatsoever gives itself being, would give itself all degrees of being,
and so would have no imperfection, because every imperfection is a
want of some degree of being. He that could give himself matter
and life, might give himself everything! The givinglof life is an
act of omnipotence; and what is omnipotent in one t ing maly be
in all. Besides, if the Hrst man had made himself, he would ave
conveyed himself to all his posterity in the same manner; every
man would have had all the perfections of the ‘first man, as every
creature hath the perfections of the same kind, from whence it natu-
rally issues; all are desirous to communicate what they can to their
posterity. Commimicative goodness belongs to every nature. Every
plant propaglages its kind in the same perfection it hath itself; and the
nearer anyt ` g comes to a rational nature, the greater affection it
hath to that which descends from it; therefore this affection belongs
to a rational natlue much more. The first man, therefore, if he had
had power to 've himself being, and, consequently, all perfection,
he would have hind as much power to convey it down to his posterity;
no impediment could have stopped his way; then all souls proceed-
ing From that first man would ave been equally intellectual. What
should hinder them from inheriting the sariiileifperfections? Whenca
should they have divers qualifications and ` erences in their under-
standin ? No man then would have been subject to those weak-
nesses, ddubtings, and unsatisfied desires of knowledge and perfection.
But being all souls are not alike, it is certain they depend upon some
other cause for the communication of that excellency theyl ave. If
the perfections of man be so contracted and kept wit in certain
boimds, it is certain that they were not in his own power, and so
were not from himself Whatsoever hath a determinate being must
be limited by; some superior ca.use. There is, therefore, some superior
power, that ath thus determined the creatine by set bounds and dis-
tinct measures, and hath assigned to every one its pro er nature, that
it should not be greater or less than it is; who ath said of every
one as of the waves of the sea, “Hitherto shalt thou come, but no
further;”i and this is God. Man could not have reserved any per-
fection from his posterity; for since he doth propagate not by choice,
but nature, he could no more have kept back any perfection 'from
them, than he could, as he pleased, have given any perfection be-
longing to his nature to them.
4. That which hath power to give itself being, cannot want power
to preserve that being. Preservation is not more difficult than crea-
tion. If the ‘drst man made himself; why did he not reserve him-
self? He is not now among the living in the world. llow came he
* Therefore the hesthens called God fb bv, the only Being. Other things were not
beings, because they had not all degrees of being. i Job xxxviii. 11.

