'rm snsrmrcn or con. 49
bbc so feeble as to sink into the grave? Whydid he not inspire
himlf with new heat and moisture, and 'fill his languishing limbs
and declining bod with new strength ? Wh did he not chase away
diseases and deatli at the 'first a proach? %hat creature can find
the dust of the first man ? All his posterity traverse the stage and
retire again; in a short space their age departs, and is removed from
them ‘ms a shepherd’s tent,’ and is ‘ cut oif with pining sicknessfk
‘The lite of man is as a. wind, and like a cloud that is consumed and
vanishes away. The eye that sees him shall see him no more; he
returns not to his house, neither doth his place know him any more."
The Scripture gives us the reason of this, and lays it upon the score
nf sin against his Creator, which no man without revelation can 've
any satisfactory account of Had the first man made himself; hed-iad
been suilicient for himself, able to su port himself without the assistf
ance of an creature. He would not have needed animals and plants,
and other hcl to nourish and refresh him, nor medicines to cure
him. He coigd not be beholden to other things for his support, which
he kl certain he never made for himself His own nature would have
continued that vigor, which once he had conferred upon himself
He would not have needed the heat and light of the sun; he would
have want/ed nothing suilicient for himself in himself; he needed not
have sought without himself for his own ‘preservation and comfort.
What de nds upon another is not of itse ; and what depends upon
things ingirior to itself is less of itself Since nothing can subsist of
imelf since we see those things upon which mar. epends for his
nourishment and subsistence, growing and decaying, starting into the
world and retiring from it, as well as man himself; some preserving
cause must be concluded, upon which all depends.
5. If the first man did produce himself, why did he not produce
himself before ?
It hath been already roved, that he had a beginning, and could
not be from eternity. My then did he not make himself before?
Not because he would not. For having no being, he could have no
will; he could neither be willin nor not willing. If he could not
then, how could he ailserwardsg If it were in his own power, he
could have done it, he would have done it; if it were not in his own
grwergthen it was in the power of some other cause, and that is God.
ov came he by that power to produce himself? If the power of
producing himself were communicated by another, then man could
not be the cause of himself That is the cause of it which communi-
cated that wer to it. But if the power of being was in and from
himself  no other, nor communicated to him, man would always
have been in act, and always have existed; no hindrance can be con~
eeived. For that which had the power of being in itself was invin-
cible bv anything that should stand in the way of its own being. '
We 'may conclude irom hence, the excellency of the Scripture;
that it is a word notto be refused credit. It gives us the most rational
account of things in the lst and 2d of Genesis, which nothing in
‘lIB."0l'ld eLac is able to do.
HI. No creature could make the world. No creature can create
|¢ I|a.iahx'xxviii.12. |Job.vii.6-9.
Voz.. 1.-4

