50 cmmnocx ON THE yrrnrsurns.
another. If it creates of nothing, it is then omnipotent and so not a
creature. If it makes something of matter uniit for that which is
produced out of it, then the inquiry will be, Who was the cause of
the matter? and~so we must arrive to some uncreated being, the
cause of all. Whatsoever gives being to any other must be the
highest being, and must possess all the perfectionr of that which it
gives being to. What visible creature is there which possesses the
perfections of the whole world? If therefore an invisible creature
made the world, the same inquiries will return whence that creature
had its being? for he could not make himselfl If any creatine did
create the world, he must do it by the strengh and virtue of another,
which first gave him being, and this is Go For whatsoever hath
its existence and virtue of acting from another, is not God. If it hath
its virtue from another, it is then a second cause, and so supposeth
a first cause. It must have some cause of itself, or be eternally exist-
ent. If etemally existent, it is not a second cause, but God; if not
eternally existent, we must come to something>at length which was
the cause of it, or else be bewildered without eing able to give an
account of anything. We must come at last to an infinite, eternal,
independent Being, that was the first cause of this structure and fabric
wherein we and all creatures dwell. The Seri ture proclaims this
aloud, “I am the Lord and there is none else: i) form the liglht, and
I create darkness.”'“ Man, the noblest creatine, cannot of imself
make a man, the chiefest part of the world. If our parents only,
without a su rior power, made our bodies or souls, they would know
the frame ofilliem; as he that makes a lock knows the wards of it;
he that makes any curious *piece of arras, knows how he sets the
various colors to ther, and ow many threads went to each division
in the web; he gat makes a wateh, having the idea of the whole
work in his mind, knows the motions of it, and the reason of those
motions. But both parents and children are equally ignorant of the
nature of their souls and bodies, and of the reason of their motions.
God only, that had the supreme hand in forming us, in whose “ book
all our members are written, which in continuance were fashioned,”l
knows what we all are ignorant oi Ifman hath-in an ordinary course
of generation his bein chiefiy from a higher cause than his parents,
the world then certainIy had its being from some infinitely wise in-
telligent Being, which is God. If it were, as some fancy, made by an
assembly of atoms, there must be some infinite intelligent cause that
made them, some cause that separated them, some cause that mingled
them together for the iling up so oomely a structure as the world.
It is the most absurd thing to think they should meet together by
hazard, and rank themselves in that order we see, without a higher
and a wise agent. So that no creature could make the world. For
supposing any] creatine was formed before this visible world, and
mig t have a and in disposing things, yet he must have a cause of
himself, and must act by the virtue and strength of another, and this
is God.
IV. From hence it follows, that there is a Hrst cause of  
which we call God. There must be something supreme in the o r
l Isaiah xlv. 6, 7. Dent. iv. 86. I Psalm cxxxix. 16.

