mn sxrsrsncn or son. 51
uf mime, something which is greater than all, which hath nothing
beyond it or above lt, otherwise we must rim in infinitum. We see
not a river, but we conclude a fountain; a watch, but we conclude
an artiiicer. As all number begins from unity, so all the multitude
of things in the world begins from some unity, oneness as the prin-
ciple of it. It is natural to arise from a view of those things, to th
conception of a nature more perfect than any. As irom heat mixed
with cold, and light mixed with darkness, men conceive and arise in
their understandings to an intense heat and a pure light; and hom
a corporeal or bodily substance {oined with an incorporeal, (as man
E an earthly bod and a spiritua soul,) we ascend to a. conception of
a substance purely incorporeal and spiritual: so from a. multitude of
things in the wor d, reason leads us to one choice being above all.
And  ce in all natures in the world, we still Bud a superior nature;
the nature of one beast, above the nature of another; the nature of
man above the nature of beasts; and some invisible nature, the work-
er of strange effects in the air and earth, which cannot be ascribed
to any visible cause, we must suppose some nature above all thow,
of unconceivable perfection.
Every skeptic, one that doubts whether there be anything real or
no in the world, that counts everything an appearance, must neces-
sarily own a first cause.° They cannot reasonably doubt, but that
there is somedirst cause which makes the things appear so to them.
The cannot be the cause of their own appearance. For as nothing
can have a being from itself, so nothing can appear by itself and its
own force. Nothing can be and not be at the same time. But that
which is not and yet seems to be; if it be the cause wh it seems to
be what it is not, it may be said to be and not to be. gut certainly
such persons must think themselves to exist. If they do not, they
cannot think; and if they do exist, they must have some cause of
that existence. So that which way soever we turn ourselves, we
must in reason own a first cause of the world. Well then might the
Psalmist term an atheist a fool, that disowns a God against his own
reason. Without owning a. God as the first cause of the world, no
man can give any tolera le or satisfactory account of the world to
his own reason. And this first cause,
1. Must necessarily exist. It is necessary that He by whom all
th' are, should be before all things, and nothing before him.P
  nothing be before him, he comes not from any other; and
then he always was, and without beginning. He is from himself;
not that he once was not, but because he hath not his existence from
another, and therefore of necessity he did exist nom all eternity.
Nothing can make itself; or bring itself into being; therefore there
must be some being which hath no cause, that de ends upon no
other; never was ,produced by any other, but was what he 18 from
eternity, and cannot be otherwise; and is not what he is by will, but
mture, necessarily existing, and always existing without ary capa-
city or possibility ever not to be. _
2. Must be infinitely perfect. Since man knows he is an imperfect
bging, he must suppose the perfections he wants are seated in some
¢Co|ad|u.m.'I'he0!-a8.§88,¢lxc. DPetav.'l‘heol.Dog.Tom.I.lib.i.-o.2.p.10,11_

