52 crwmocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
other being which hath limited him, and u n which he depends.
Whatsoever we conceive of excellency or periiigtion, must be in God.
For we can conceive no erfection but what God hath given us a
power to conceive. And) he that gave us a power to conceive a
transcendent perfection above whatever we saw or heard of, hath
much more in himself; else he could not give us such a conception.
Secondly, As the production of the world, so the harmony of all
the parts of it declare the being and wisdom of a God. \Vithout the
acknowledging God, the atheist can 've no account of those things.
The multitude, elegancy, variety, audi beauty of all things are steps
whereby to ascend to one fountain and original of them. Is it not a
folly to deny the being ofa wise agent, who sparkles in the beauty
and motions of the heavens, rides upon the wings of the wind, and
is writ upon the flowers and fruits of plants? As the cause is known
by the effects, so the wisdom of the cause is known by the elegancy
of the work, the roportion of the parts to one another. Who can
imagine the world) could be rashly made, and without consultation,
which, in every part of it, is so artihciallly framed? No work of art
springs up of its own 8CCOI`d.‘l The Wor d is framed by an excellent
art, and, therefore, made by some skilful artist. As we hear not a
melodious instrument, but we conclude there is a musician that
touches it, as well as some skilful hand that framed and disposed it
for those lessons; and no man that hears the pleasant sound of a lute
but will fix his thoughts, not upon the instrument itself, but upon the
skill of the artist that made it, and the art of the musician that strikes
it, though he should not see the first, when he saw the lute, nor see
the other, when he hears the harmony: so a rational creature confines
not his thou hts to his sense when he sees the sun in its glory, and
the moon waliing in its brightness; but riseth up in a contem lation
and admiration of that Infinite Spirit that composed, and filled them
with such sweetness. This appears,
1. In the linking contrar qualities to(gether. All things are com~
sounded of the elements. Those are en ued with contrary qualities,
ryness and moisture, heat and cold. These would always be con-
tending with and infesting one another’s rights, till the contest ended
in the destruction of one or both. Where fire is predominant, it
would suck up the water; where water is prevalent, it would uench
the fire. The heat would wholly ex el the cold, or the cold over-
power the heat; et we see them clihined and linked one within
another in every body u on the earth, and rendering mutual ofiices
for the benefit of that bod)y wherein they are seated, and all conspir-
ing together in their articular quarrels for the public interest of the
body. How could those contraries, that of themselves observe no
order, that are always preying upon one another, jointly accord
together of themselves, for one common end, if they were not linked
in a common band, and reduced to that order by some incomprehen-
sible wisdom and power, which keeps a hand upon them, orders their
motions and directs their events, and makes them friendly pass into
one another’s natures? Confusion had been the result of the discord
and diversity of their natiuex; no composition could have been of
I Philo. J ude. Petav. Theo. Dog. Tom. I. lih i. c. 1. p. 9.

