'rim nxrsrnscn or son. ~ 53
those conflicting qualities for the 'dame of any body, nor any harmony
arose from so many jarring   they had not been reduced into
concord by one that is supreme rd over them, and knows how to
dispose their varieties and enmities for the public- good. If a man
should see a. large city or country, consisting of great multitudes of
men, of diiferent tempers, full of frauds, and factions, and animosities
in their natures against one another, yet living together in good order
a  without oppressing and invading one another, and joining
C, er for the public good, he would presently conclude there were
some excellent overnor, who tcmlpered them by his wisdom, and
£Jl?rved the puilic peace, though e had never yet beheld him with
` eye! It is as necessary to’couclude a God, who moderates the
cdontrarieties in the world, as to conclude a wise prince who overrules
e contrary dispositions in a state, maldn e one to kee his
own bounds and confines. Things that aregcozietxhyry to one angther
suhsist in an admirable order. _
2. In the subserviency of one thin to another. All the members
of livinv creatures are curiously fitted for the service of one another,
destined to a particular end, and endued with a virtue to attain that
end, and so distinctly placed, that one is no hindrance to the other in
its operations' Is not this more admirable than to be the work of
chance, which is incapable to settle such an order, and fix particular
and general ends, causing an exact correspondency of all the parts
with one another, and every part to conspire together for one com-
mon end? One thing is fitted for another. The eye is fitted for the
sun, and the sim fitted for the eye. Several sorts of food are fitted
for several creatures, and those creatures fitted with organs for the
partaking that food. .
(13, Subserviency of heaven] bodies. The sun, the heart of the
worl is not for_itseli; but for the good of the world, as the heart of
man is for the good of the body! How conveniently is the sun
placed, at a distance from the earth, and the uplper heavens, to
enlighten the stars above, and enliven the earth be owl If it were
either higher or lower, one part would want its influences. It is not
in the higher parts of the heavens; the earth, then, which lives and
n'uctifies'l>y its influence would have been exposed to a. perpetual
winter and chillness, unable to have produced anythin for the sus-
tenance of man or beast. If seated lower, the earth had ieen parched
up, the world made uninhabitable, and long since had been consumed
to ashes by the strength of its heat. Consider the motion, as well as
the situation of the sun. Had it stood still, one art of the world
had been cherished by its beams, and the other lieit in a. desolate
widowhood, in a disconsolate darkness. Besides, the earth would
have had no shelter from its perpendicular beams striking)perpetually,
and without any remission, upon it. The same incomm ities would
have followed uplon its ilxedness as upon its too  emw. By
I. constant day, t e beauty of the stars had been o d, the know -
edge of their motions beelbpgevented, and a considerable part ofthe
glorious wisdom _of the ator, in those choice “ works of his
' Athanasius Petav. Theol. Dog. Tom. T. lib. i. c. 1. p. 4, 5.
' Gamend. Physio § 1. lib. iv. c. 2. p. 815. * Leslius.

