54 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
fingers,”“ had been veiled from our eyes. It moves in a hxed line,
visits all parts of the earth, scatters in the day its refreshing blessings
in every creek of the earth, and removes the mask from the other
beauties of heaven in the night, which sparkle out to the glory of
the Creator. It spreads its light, warms the earth, cherisheth the
seeds, excites the s irit in the earth, and brings fruit to rhaturity.
View also the air, tlile vast extent between heaven and earth, which
serves for a water~coursc, a cistern for water, to bedew the face of
the sun-burnt earth, to satisfy the desolate ground, and to cause the
"bud of the tender herb to spring forth.”== Could chance appoint
the clouds of the air to inte ose as fans between the scorching heat
of the sun, and the faint bodiies of the creatures? Can that be the
“father of the rain, or beget the dro s of dew ?”! Could anythin
so blind settle those ordinances of heaven for the preservation of
creatures on the earth? Can this either bring or stay the bottles of
heaven, when the “ dust grows into hardness, and the clouds cleave
fast together?”1 _
(2.) Subserviency of the lower world, the earth, and sea., which
was created to be inhabited,   xlv. 18.) The sea atlbrds water to
the rivers, the rivers, like so many veins, are spread through the
whole body of the earth, to refresh and enable it to bring forth fruit
for the sustenance of man and beast, (Ps. civ. 10, 113 “ He sends
the springs into the valleys, which run among the li' ls; they give
drink to every beast of the field; the wild asses quench their thirst.
He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and the herb for the service
of man, that he may bring forth food out of the earth.” (ver. 14.)
The trees are provided for shades against the extremity of heat, a
refuge for the panting beasts, an “habitation for birds,” wherein to
make their nests (ver. 17), and a basket for their (provision. How
are the valleys and mountains of the earth dispose_ for the leasure
and rotit of man! Every year are the fields covered with liarvests
for die nourishing the creatures; no part is baren, but beneficial to
man. The mountains that are not clothed with grass for his food,
are set with stones to' make him an habitation; they have their pe-
culiar services of metals and minerals, for the conveniency and com-
fort, and benefit of man. Things which are not fit for his food, are
medicines for his cure, under some painful sickness. Where the
earth brings not forth corn, it brings forth roots for the service of
other creatures. Wood abounds more in those countries where the
cold is stronger than in others. Can this be the result of chance, or
not rather of an Inhnite \Visdom? Consider the usefulness of the
sea, for the supply of rivers to refresh the earth: “ Which go u
by the mountains and down by the valleys into the place Gog
hath founded for them” (Ps. civ. 8); a store-house for fish, for the
nouiishment of other creatures, a s op of medicines for cure, and
pearls for ornament: the band that ties remote nations together, by
giving opportunity of passage to, and commerce with, one another.
How should that natural inclination of the sea to cover the earth,
submit to this subserviency to the creatures? \Vho hath unded
in this fluid mass of water in certain limits, and confinetfit to its
° Ps. viii. 8. I Job xxxviii.25, 27. I Job xxxviii. 28. °Jobxxxviii. $7,338.

