'mn Exrsrsucs or con. 55
own channel, ibr the accommodation of such creatures, who, by its
common law, can only be upon the earth? Naturally the earth was
covered with the deep as with a ent; the waters stood above
the mountains. “ Who set a bound that they might not ass over,"‘
that they return not again to cover the earth? Was it bilind chance
oran Infinite Power, that “shut up the sea with doors, and made
thick darkness a swaddling band for it, and said, Hitherto shall thou
come and no farther, and here shall thy proud waves be stayed ?”"
All   are so ordered, that they are not _propkr se, but propter aliud.
What vantage accrues to the sun by its unwearied rolling about
the world? Doth it increase the rfection of its nature by all its
circuits? No; but it serves the iniieerior world, it impregnates things
rliyits heat. Not the most abject _thing but hath 1ts end and use.
here is a straight connection: the eart could not bring forth fruit
without the heavens; the heavens could not water the earth without
v rs from it.
REQ) All this subserviency of creatures centres in man. Other crea-
tures are served by those things, as well as ourselves, and they are
provided for their nourishment and refreshment, as well as ours ;°
yet, both they, and all creatures meet in man, as lines in their cen-
tres. Thin that have no life or sense, are made for those that have
both life andssense; and those that have life and sense, are made for
those that are endued with reason. When the Psalmist admiringly
considers the heavens, moon and stars, he intimates man to be the
end for which they were created (Ps. viii. 3, 4); “What is man, that
thou art mindful of him?" He expresseth more particularly the
dominion that man hath “over the beasts of the field, the fowl of
the air, and whatsoever passes through the aths of the sea” (ver. 6-
3; and concludes from thence, the “excellency of God’s name in
the earth.” All things in the world, one way or other, centre in
an usefulness for man; some to feed him, some to clothe him, some
to delight him, others to instruct him, some to exercise his wit, and
others his strength. Since man did not make them, he did not also
older them for his own use. If they cons ire to serve him who never
made them, they direct man to acknowledge another, who is the
joint Creator both ofthe lord and the servants under his dominion;
and, therefore, as the inferior natures are ordered b an invisible
hand for the gd of man, so the nature of man is, by the same hand,
ordered to ac owledge the existence and the lory of the Creator
of him. This visible order man knows he did not constitute; he
did not settle those creatures in subserviency to himself; they were
placed in that order before he had any ac%uaintance with them, or
existence of himself; which is a question od puts to J ob, to con-
sider 'if (J :vb xxxviii. fl): “ Where wast thou w en I laid the foun-
dation of the earth? eclare, if thou hast understanding." All is
ordered for man’s use; the heavens answer to the earth, as a roof to a
ilcor, both composing a delightful habitation for man ; vapors ascend
from the earth, and the heaven concocts them, and returns them
llck in welcome showers for the supplying of the earth! The light
l Psalm civ. 6, 9. ‘ Job xxxviii. 8, 9, ll. °
0 Amirald. da'I'rinit.ate, pp. 18, l8. ‘ Jer. x. 18.

