56 cnaanocx ON THE A'1'I‘RIBU'1'ES.
of the sun descends to beauti the earth, and employs its heat to
midwife its fruits, and this for t e good of the community, whereof
man is the head; and though all creatures have distinct natures, and
must act for particular ends, according to the law of their creation,
yet there is a joint combination for the good of the whole, as the
common end; just as all the rivers in the world, from what part
soever they come, whether north or south,.fall into the sea., for the
supply of that mass of waters, which loudly proclaims some infinitely
wise nature, who made those things in so exact an harmony. “ As
in a clock, the hammer which strikes the bell leads us to the next
wheel, that to another, the little wheel to a eater, whence it derives
its motion, this at last to the spring; whim? aoquaints us that there
was some artist that framed them in t is subordination to one another
for this orderl motion.”‘=
84.) This orcli-:r or subserviency is regular and uniform; eve thing
is etermined to its particular naturef The sun and moon rnzilile day
and night, months and years, determine the seasons, never are de-
fective in _coming back to their station and place; they wander not
from their roads, shock not against one another, nor hinder one
another in the functions assigned them. From a small grain or seed,
a tree springs, with body, root, bark, leaves, fruit of the same shape,
figure, smell, taste; that there should be as many parts in one, as in
all of the same kind, and no more; and that in the womb of a sen-
sitive creature should be formed one of the same kind, with all the
due members, and no more; and the creature that produceth it knows
not how it is formed, or how it is perfected. If we say this is nature,
this nature is an intelligent being; if not, how can it direct all causes to
such uniform ends? if it be intelligent, this nature must be the same
we call God, “ who ordered every herb to yield seed, and every fruit
tree to yield fruit after its kind, and also eve beast, and every
creeping thing after its kind.” (Gen. i. 11, 12, 24. And everything
is determined to its particular season; the sap riseth from the root
at its appointed time, enlivening and clothing the branches with a
new garment at such a time of the sun’s returning, not wholly hin-
dered by any accidental coldness of the weather, it being often colder
at its return, than it was at the sun's de arture. All things have
their seasons of flourishing, budding, blbssoming, bringing forth
fruit; they ripen in their seasons, cast their leaves at the same time,
throw oft' their old clothes, and in the spring appear with new gar-
ments, but still in the same fashion. The winds and the rain have
their seasons, and seem to be administered by laws for the profit of
mans: N o satisfactory cause of those things can be ascribed to the
earth, the sea, or the air, or stars. “ Can any understand the spread~
ing of his clouds, or the noise of his tabernacle ?” (J ob xxxviii 29.)
The natural reason of those things cannot be demonstrated, without
recourse to an infinite and intelligent being; nothing can be rendered
capable of the direction of those things but a God.
This regularity in plants and animals is in all nations. The
heavens have the same motion in all parts of the world; all men
have the same law of nature in their mind; all creatures are stamped
° Mom. de Verit. c. 1. p. 7. ' Ainirunt. ¢ Cooeei. sum. Theol. c. 8. § 77.

