nm EXIQEENCE or son. 57
with thesame law of creation. In all parts the same creatures serve
forthesame use; and though there be different creatures in India
and Europe, yet they have the same subordination, the same sub-
serviency to one another, and ultimately to man; which shows that
there is a God, and but one God, w o tunes all those different
strings to the same notes in all places. Is it nature merely conducts
these natural causes in due measure to their proper effects, without
interfering with one another? Can mere nature be the cause of
those musical proportions of time? You may as well conceive a
lute to sound its own strings without the hand of an artist; a city
well governed without a govemor; an arm keep its stations without
a general, as imagine so exact an order without an orderer. Would
any man, when he hears a clock strike, by fit intervals, the hour of
the day, ' ` e this regularity in it without the direction of one
that had uniierstanding to manage it? ' He would not- only regard
218 motion of the clock, but commend the diligence of the clock-
eE§§1-This order and subserviency is constant. Children change
the customs and manners of their fathers; magistrates change the
laws theyhave received hom their ancestors, and enact new ones in
their room: but in the world all things consist as the were created
at the beginning; the law of nature m the creatures hath met with
no change. Who can behold the sun rising in the morning, the moon
mining in the night, increasing and decreasing in its due spaces, the
stars in their regular motions night after night, for all ages, and yet
denya President over them 'Ph And this motion of the heavenly
bodies, being contrarieto the nature of other creatures, who move in
order to rest, must from some higher cause. But those, ever
since the settling in their places, have been rpetually rounding the
world. What nature, but one powerful angeintelligent, could give
that perpetual motion to the s1m,i which being big r than the earth
ahundred sixty-six times, rims many thousand   with a mighty
svriftness in the space of an hour, with an unwearied diligence per-
forming its dail task, and, as a. strong man, rejoicing to run its race,
for above five thousand years together, without intermission, but in
the time of Joshua ?|= It is not na.ture’s sun, but God’s sun, which
he “ makes to rise upon the 'ust and un'ust.”1 So a plant receives
its nourishment from the earth, sends forth the juice to ever branch,
forms a bud which spreads it into a blossom and flower; the leaves
of this drop off and leave a fruit of the same color and taste, every
year, which, being ripened by the sim, leaves seeds behind it for the
Egsagation of its like, whic contains in the nature of it the same
' of buds, blo@ms, fruit, which were before; and being nour-
ished in the womb of the earth, and uickened by the power of the
lull, discovers itself .at length, in alll the pro 'and motions
yrhich its predecessor did. Thus in all ages, in #51 places, every year
liperfonns the same task, spins out fruit of the same color, taste,
virtue, to refresh the several creatures for which they are provided.
' Petav. ex Athanas. Theol. Dog. Tom. I. lib. i. o. 1. § 4. l Whether it hc the sun
or_tl\e urth that move, it is all one. Wh ce have either of them this constant and
mffmllbtidlll " Josh. x. 18 3 Matt. v. 45.

