  CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'I’BIBU'I‘ES.
This settled state of things comes from that God who laid the “foun-
dations of the earth,” that it should “not be removed” forever?"
'and set “ ordinances for them” to act b a stated law,” accordin to
which they move as if they understood, themselves to have mage a
covenant with their Creator.°
3. Add to this imion of contrary qualities, and the subserviency
of one thin to another, the admirable variety and diversity oi things
in the world. What variety of metals, living creatures, plants! what
variety and distinction in the shape of their leaves, flowers, smell,
resulting from them! Who can number up the several sorts of
beasts on the earth, birds in the air, fish in the sea? How various
are their motionsl Some creep, some go, some fly, some swim; and
in all this variety each creature hath organs or members, fitted for
their peculiar motion. If you consider the multitude of stars, which
shine like jewels in the heavens, their different magnitudes, or the
variety of colors in the flowers and tapestry of the earth, you could
no more conclude they made themselves, or were made by chance,
than you can imagine a ‘piece of arras, with a diversity of figures and
colors, either wove itsel , or were knit together by hazard.
How delicious is the sap of the vine, when turned into wine, above
that of a crabl Both have the same womb of earth to conceive
them, both agree in the nature of wood and twigs, as channels to
conve it into fruit. What is that which makes the one so sweet,
the other so sour, or makes that sweet which was a few weeks before
un leasantly sharp? Is it the earth? No: they both have the same
soil); the branches may touch each other; the strings of their roots
may, under ground, entwine about one another. ' Is it the sun? both
have the same beams. Why is not the taste and color of the one as
gratifying as the other? Is it the root? the taste of that is far differ-
ent from that of the fruit it bears. Why do they not, when they
have the same soil, the same sun, and stand near one another, bor-
row something from one another’s natures? No reason can be ren-
dered, but that there is a God of infinite wisdom hath determined
this variety, and bound up the nature of each creature within itself
“ Everything follows the law of its creation; and it is worthy obser-
vation, that the Creator of them hath not given that power to ani-
mals, which arise from different species, to propagate the like to
themselves; as mules, that arise from different species. No reason
can be rendered of this, but the fixed determination of the Creator,
that those species which were created by him should not be lost in
those mixtures which are contrary to the law of the creation ?P This
cannot possibly be ascribed to that which is commonly called nature,
but unto the God of nature, who will not have his creatures exceed
their bounds or come short of them.
, Now since among those varieties there are some things better than
other, yet all are good in their kind, and partake of goodnc-ss,<| there
must be something better and more excellent than all those, from
Whom they derive that goodness, which inheres in their nature and
is communicated by them to others: and this excellent Being must
'= Psalm civ. 5. ' Job   38. ° Jer. xxxiii. 20.
P Amiruld. de Triuitate, p. 21. 'i Gen. i. 31.

