'rms EXISTENCE or son. 59
inherit, in an eminent way in his own nature, the goodness of all
those varieties, since they made not themselves, but were made by
another. All that goodness which is scattered in those varieties
must be infinitely eoneentered in that nature, which distributed
those various perfeetions to them (Ps. Xeiv. 9); “ He that lanted
the ear, shall not he hear; he that formed the eye, shall not lie see;
he that teacheth man knowled e, shall not he know ?" The Creator
is greater than the creature, and whatsoever is in his effects, is but an
impression of some excellenc in himself: there is, therefore, some
chief fountain of goodness whence all those various goodnesscs in
the world do How.
From all this it follows, if there be an order,-and harmony, there
must be an Orderer: one that “made the earth by his power, estab-
lished the world by his wisdom, and stretched out the heavens by
his discretion” (Jer. x. 122; Order being the effect, cannot be the
cause of itself: order is t e disposition of things to an end, and is
not intelligent, but implies.an intelligent Orderer; and, therefore, it
is as certain that there is a God, as it is certain there is order in the
world. Order is an effect of reason and counsel; this reason and coun-
sel must have its residence in some being before this order was fixed:
the things ordered are always distinct from that reason and counsel
whereby they are ordered, and also after it, as the effect is a&er the
cause. No man begins a piece of work but he hath the model of it
in his own mind: no man builds a house, or makes a watch, but he
hath the idea or copy of it in his own head. This beautiful world
bespeaks an idea of it, or a model: since there is such a magnificent
wisdom in the make of each creature, and the proportion of one
creature .to another, this model must be before the world, as the pat-
tern is always before the thing that is wrought by it. This, there-
fore, must be in some intelligent and wise agent, and this is God.
Since the reason of those things exceed the reason and all the art
of man, who can ascribe them to any inferior cause? Chance it
could not be; the motions of chance are not constant, and at set
seasons, as the motions of creatures are. That which is by chance
is contingent, this is necessary; uniformity can never be the birth
of chance. \Vho can imagine that all the parts of a watch can meet
together and put themselves in order and motion by chance? “Nor
can it be nature only, which indeed is a disposition of second causes.
If nature hath not an understanding, it cannot work such effects.
If nature therefore uses counsel to begin a thing, reason to dispose
it, art to effect it, virtue to complete it, and ower to govern it, why
should it be called nature rather than G'0d¥”' Nothing so sure as
that which hath an end to which it tends, hath a cause by which it
is ordered to that end. Since therefore all things are ordered in
subserviency to the good of man, they are so or ered by Him that
made both man and them; and man must acknowledge the wisdom
and goodness of his Creator, and act in subserviency to his glory,.as
other creatures act in subserviency to his good. Sensible objects
were not made only to gratify the sense of man, but to hand some-
thing to his mind as he is a rational creature: to discover God to
* Iswtantt

