60 CHARNOCK on THE ATTRIBUTES.
him as an object of love and desire to be enjoyed. If this be not
the eifect of it, the order of the creature, as to such an one, is in vain,
and falls short of its true end.”
To conclude this: As when a. man comes into a palace, built ac-
cording to the exactest rule of art, and with an unexcepfionable
conveuiency for the inhabitants, he would acknowledge oth the
being and skill of the builder; so whosoever shall observe the dis-
position of all the parts of the world, their connection, comeliness,
the variet of seasons, the swarms of different creatures, and the
mutual oiliizes they render to one another, cannot conclude less, than
that it was contrived by an infinite skill, effected by infinite power,
and governed by infinite wisdom. None can imagine a ship to be
orderly conducted without a pilot; nor the parts of the world to
perform their several functions without a wise guide; considering
the members of the bod cannot perform theirs, without the active
presence of the soul. The atheist, then, is a fool to deny that which
every creature in his constitution asserts, and thereby renders him-
self unable to give a satisfactory accoimt of that constant uniformity
in the motions of the creatures.
Thirdly, As the production and harmony, so plarticular creatiues,
pursuing and attaining their ends, manifest that t ere is a God. All
particular creatures have natural instincts, which move them for some
end. The intending of an end is a roperty of a rational creatine;
since the lower creatures cannot challenge that title, they must act
by the understanding and direction of another; and since man can-
not challenge the honor of inspiring the creatures with such instincts,
it must be ascribed to some nature innnitely above an creature in
understanding. No creature doth determine itself %Vhy do the
fruits and grain of the earth nourish us, when the earth which in-
strumentally gives them that fitness, cannot nourish us, but because
their several ends are determined by one higher than the world?
1. Several creatures have several natures. How soon will all
creatures, as soon as they see the light, move to that whereby they
must live, and make use of the natural arms God hath given their
kind, for their defence, before they are grown to any maturity to
afford them that defence! The Seri ture makes the ap etite of in-
fants to their milk a foundation ofp the divine glory, Ps.   3),
“Out of the mouths of babes and sueklings hast thou ordained
strength ;” that is, matter of praise and acknowledgment of God, in
the natural ap etite they have to their milk and their relish of it.
All creatiues have a natural affection to their young ones; all young
ones by a natural instinct, move to, and receive the nourishment that
is proper for them; some are their own physicians, as well as their
own caterers, and naturally discern what reserves them in life, and
what restores them when sick. The swallow flies to its celandine,
and the toad hastens to its plantain. Can we behold the spider’s
nets, or silkworm’s web, the bee’s closets, or the ant’s granaries, with-
out acknowledging a higher being than a creature who hath planted
that genius in them? The consideration of the nat1u°e of several
creatures God commended to Job, (chap. xxxix., where he discour
' Coecei sum Theol. c. 8. § 63, 64.

