'rrm nxrsrancn or oon. ` 61
seth to Job of the natural instincts of the goat, the ostrich, horse, and
eagle, kc.) to persuade him to the acknowled ent and admiration
of God, and humiliation of himseli _ The spidgri, as if it understood
the art of weaving, fits its web both for its own habitation, and a net
to catch its pre . The bee builds a cell which serves for chambers
to reside in, and a repository for its provision. Birds are observed
to build their nests with a clammy matter without, for the irmer
duration of it, and with a. soft moss and down within, for the con-
reniency and warmth of their oimg. “The stork knows his ap-
pointed time,” (Jer.   73, andy the swallows observe the time of
their comirrgl; they go an return according to the seasons of the
year; this ey gain not by consideration, it descends to them with
their nature; they neither gain nor increase itb rational deductions.
ltisnotin vain to speak of these. How littza do we improve by
meditation those objects which daily offer themselves to our view,
full of instructions for usl our Saviour sends his disciples to
spell Goa in the snag It is ed also, that the creatures offen-
sive to man go single; rf they went by troops, they would bring de-
struction upogf  and beast; this rs the nature of them, for the
preservation o ers. .
2. They know not their end. They have a law in their natures,
but have no rational lmderstanding, either of the end to which they
are aplpointed, or the means ‘dt to attain it; they naturally do what
they o, and move by no counsel of their own, but by a law im-
pressed by some higher hand upon their natures. What plant knows
thy it strikes its root into the earth? doth it imderstand what storms
it is to contest with? Or why it shoots up its branches towards
heaven? doth it know it needs the droppings of the clouds to pre-
serve itself; and make it fruitful? These are acts of understanding;
the root is downward to preserve its own standing, the branches ulp-
nrdto preserve other creatures; this understanding is not in t e
mature itself, but originally in another. Thunders and tempests
know not why they are sent; yet by the direction of a might hand,
they are instruments of justice u n a wicked world. lliational
creatures that act for some end, and() know the end they aim at, yet
lmow not the manner of the natural motion of the members to rt."
When we intend to look upon a thing, we take no counsel about the
natural motion of our eyes, we know not all the rinciples of their
Qperations, or how that dull matter whereof our bodlesare composed.,
B subject to the order of our minds. We are not of counsel with our
Elmnachs about the concoction of our meat, or the distribution of the
nourishing juice to the several parts of the body! Neither the
mother nor the fcetus sit in council how the formation should be
lnadein the womb. We know no more than a plant knows what
Wlfure it is oi; and what medicinal virtue its fruit .hath for the good
of man; yet all those natural operations are perfectly directed to
Fllfir pro end, by an higher wisdom than any human understand-
wg is ableelo conceive, since they exceed the a ility of an inanimate
Urtleshly nature, yea, and the wisdom of a man. Do we not often
3 lit. vi.28. ‘ 0oecei.sum.'l‘heolog.c.8.§6'1,|h.
' Peinon on tho Creed, p. 86.
l

