62 cinnnocx ON me .u'r1zrnU'rEs.
see reasonable creatiues acting for one end, and perfecting a higher
than what they aimed at or could suspect? When J oseph’s brethren
sold him for a. slave, their end was to be rid of an informer;y but the
action issued in preparing him to be the preserver of them and their
families. Cyruss end was to be a conqueror, but the action ended
in being the J ews’ deliverer (Prov. xvi. 9). “A man’s heart deviseth
his way, but the Lord directs his steps."
3. Therefore there is some superior understanding and nature
which so acts them. That which acts for an end unknown to itself;
depends upon some overruling wisdom that knows that end. Who
should direct them in all those ends, but He that bestowed a being
1]-rpon them for those ends; who knows what is convenient for their
` e, security and ro agation of their natures ?= An exact knowl-
edge is nccessary iiotlii of what is agreeable to them, and the means
whereby they must attain it, which, since it is not inherent in them,
is in that wise God, who uts those instincts into them, and governs
them in the exercise of tiiem to such ends. Any man that sees a
dart flung, knows it cannot hit the mark without the skill and
strength of an archer; or he that sees the hand of a dial pointing to
the hours successivelv, knows that the dial is ignorant of its own end,
and is disposed and directed in that motion by another. All creatures
ignorant of their own natures, could not universally in the whole
kind, and in every climate and country, without any diilerence in
the whole world, tend to a certain end, if some overruling wisdom
did not preside over the world and guide them: and if the creatures
have a Conductor, they have a Creator; all things are “ t'l11`D€d round
about by his counsel, that the may do whatsoever he commands
them, upon the face of the world in the earth.”“ So that in this re-
spect the folly of atheism appears. \Vithout the owning a God, no
account can be given of those actions of creatures, that are an imita-
tion of reason. To say the bees, &c. are rational, is to equal them
to man : nay, make them his superiors, since they do more by nature
than the wisest man can do by art: it is their own counsel whereby
they act, or another’s; if it be their own, they are reasonable crea-
tures; if by another’s, it is not mere nature that is necessary; then
other creatures would not be without the same skill, there would be
no dilference among them. If nature be restrained by another, it
hath a superior; if not, it is a free agent; it is an understandin
Being that directs them; and then it is something superior to ag
creatures in the world; and by this, therefore, we may ascend to the
acknowledgment of the necessity of a God.
Fourthly. Add to the production and order of the world and the
creatures acting for their end, the preservation of them. Nothing
can depend upon itself in its preservation, no more than it could in
its being. If the order of the world was not fixed by itself, the pres-
ervation of that order cannot be continued by itseli Though the
matter of the world after creation cannot return to that nothing
whence it was fetched, without the power of God that made it, (be~
cause the same power is as requisite to reduce a thing to nothing as
to raise a thing from nothing,) yet without the actual exerting of a
I Genn. xxxvii. ' Lesaius de Providen. lib. i. p. 652. Iob xxxvii. 12.

