rm: mxrsfrnsca or con. 63
power that made the creatures, they would fall into confusion. Those
contesting qualities which are in every part of it, could not have pre
served, but would have consumed, an extinguished one anot er,
and reduced the world to that confused chaos, wherein it was before
the Spirit moved upon the waters: as contrary parts could not have
met together in one form, unless there had been one that had con-
joined them ; so they could not have kept together after their con-
jimction unless the same hand d preserve them. Natural con-
trarieties cannot be reconciled. I ` as great power to keep discords
knit, as at first to link t o would doubt but that an army
made up of several nation and hurnois, would fall into a civil war
and sheathe their swords in one another’s bowels, if the were not
under the rnanagement of some wise general; or a ship dyash against
the rocks without the skill of a pilot? As the body hath neither
lite nor motion without the _active presence of the soul, which dis-
tributes to every part the virtue of acting, sets every one in the ex-
ercise of its proper function, and resides in every art; so there is
some powerful cause which doth the like in the world, that rules and
tempers it. " There is need of the same power and action to preserve
a tluug, as there was at first to make it. When we consider that we
are preserved, and know that we could not preserve ourselves, we
must necessarily run to some first cause which cloth preserve us. All
works of art depend upon nature, and are .preserved while they are
kept by the force of nat\u°e, as a statue depends upon the matter
whereof it is made, whether stone or brass; this nature, therefore,
must have some superior b Whose influx it is preserved. Since,
therefore, we see a stable ordver in the things of the world, that they
conspire together for the good and beauty of the universe ; that they
depend ucpon one another; -there must be some principle upon whic
they do eiend; something to which the first link of the chain is
fastened, w ich himself depends upon no superior, but wholly rests
in his own essence and being. It is the title of God to be the “ Pre-
server of man and beast.”° The Psalmist elegantly describeth it,
(Psalm civ. 24, &c.) “The earth is full of his riches: all wait upon
him, that he may give them their meat in due season. When he
opens his hand, e ills them with good; when he hides his face they
are troubled; if he take away their breath, they die, and return to
dust. He sends forth his S irit, and they are created, and renews
the face of the earth. The glbry of the Lord shall endure forever;
and the Lord shall rejoice in his works.” Upon the consideration
of all which, the Psalmist (ver. 34) takes a pleasure in the meditation
of God as the cause and manager of all those things; which issues
into a _joy in God, and a praising of him. And wh should not the
consideration of the power and wisdom of God in the creatures pro-
duce the same effect in the hearts of us, if he be our God? Or, as
some render it, “My meditation shall be sweet,” or acceptable to him,
whereby I find matter of praise in the things of the world, and offer
it to the Creator of it.
Reason IH. It is a folly to deny that which a man’s own nature
witnesseth to him. The whole frame of bodies and souls bears the
* Gaesend. Phys. §0. lib. iv. c. 2. p. 101. ° Psalm xxxvi. 6.

