64 crurmocx ON 'rx-In srrnmurns.
impress of the infinite ower and wisdom of the Creator: a body
framed with an admirable architecture, a soul endowed with under-
standing, will, judgment, memory, imagination. Man is the epitome
of the world, contains in himself the substance of all natures, and the
fulness of the whole universe; not only in regard of thc universal-
ness of his knowledge, whereby he comprehends the reasons of many
things; but as all the perfections of the several natures of the world
are gathered and united in man, for the perfection of his own, in a
smaller volume. In his soul he partakes of heaven; in his bod of
the earth. `\Tl_}G1‘8 is the life of lants, the sense of beasts, and’ the
intellectual nature of angel§f’\ “ 'lllie Lord breathed into his nostril
the breath of life, and mari," &,c.: mm, q' lives. Not one sort of
lives, but several; not only an animal, but a. rational life; a soul of
a nobler extract and nature, than what was given to other creatures.
Sothat we need not step out of doors, or cast our eyes any further
than ourselves, to behold a God. He shines in the capacity of our
souls, and the vigor of our members. we must fly from ourselves,
and be stri ped of our own humanity, before we can ut olf the
notion of a }l)eity. He that is ignorant of the existence oiPGo<l, must
be (possessed of so much folly, as to be ignorant of his own make
an hams.
1. In the parts whereof he doth consist, -body and soul.
First, Take a prospect of the body. The Psalmist counts it a
matter of praise and -admiration (Psalm cxxxix. 15, gg): “I will
praise thee, for I am fearfilll and wonderfully made. hen I was
made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the
earth, in thy book all my members were written.” The scheme of
man and every member was drawn in his book. All the sinews,
veins, arteries, bones, like a piece of embroideli or tapestry, were
wrought by God, as it were, with deliberation; ` e an artiiicer, that
draws out the model of what he is to do in writing, and sets it before
him when he begins his work. And, indeed, the fabric of man’s
body, as well as his soul, is an argument for a Divinity. The artiii-
cial structure of it, the elegancy of every part, the proper situation
of them, their proportion one to another, t e ‘fitness for their several
functions, drew from Galen‘= (a heathen, and one that had no raised
sentiments of a Deity) a confession of the admirable wisdom and
power of the Creator, and that none but God could frame it.
1. In the order, Htness, and usefulness of ever part. The whole
model of the body is grounded upon reason. §vcry member hath
its exact proportion, uistinct otiice, regular motion. Every part
hath a particular comeliness, and convenient temperament bestowed
upon it, according to its place in the body. The heart is hot, to en-
liven the whole; the eye clear, to take in objects to resent them to
the soul. Every member is presented for its peculiar service and
action. Some are for sense, some for motion, some for preparing,
and others for dispensing nourishment to the several parts: they
mutually depend upon and serve one another. What small strings
fasten the particular members together, “as the earth, that hangs
4 Gen. ii. 7. '
° Lib. iii. de Um. Pnrtium. Petav. Theol. Dog Tom. I. lib. i. e. 1. p. 6.

