'rim nxrsrsscs or son. 65
nothing l"*` Take but one part away and you either destro _
ademvihole, or stamp upon it some mark of deformity. All are kni
together by an admira le s metry ' all orderly erform their func-
tions, as acting by a settled,-lgw; noiie swerving gom their rule, but
in ease of some predominant humor. And none of them, in so
great a multitude of parts, stified in so little a room, or jostling
against one another, to hinder their mutual actions; none can be
er   And the greatest wisdom of -man could not im-
agine it, till his ey; present them with the sight and connection of
one part and mem with another.
(1.) The hearts How strongly) it is guarded with ribs like a
wall, that it might not be easily urtl t draws blood from the
hver, through a channel made for that (purpose; rarefies it, and
makes it fit to pass through the arteries an veins, and to carry heat
andkslife to 6V;l(;y;i’ parat of the body: and by ill plerpetual m§tion,3t
me in the bl an spouts it out again - w ic motion epcn s
not upon the command of the soul, but is pure natural.
(2.) The mouth takes in the meat, the teeth grind it for the stom-
ach, the stomach repares it, nature strains it through the milky
veins, the liver reiiiies it, and mints it into blood, separates the plurer
frohzgx the drossy parts, which go to the heart, circuits tliroug the
W le body, runnin throu h the veins, like rivers throug so man
channels of the world, for tie watering of the several parts; which
are framed of a thin skin for the straining the blood through, for the
Slrptply of the members of the body, and framed with several valves
Or oors, for the thrusting the blood fbrwards to perform its circular
motion.
(3.) The brain, fortified by a strong skull, to hinder outward acci-
dents, a tough membrane or skin, to hinder any cgppression by the
skull; the seat of sense, that which coins the anim spirits, by pun-
  and refining those which are sent to it, and seems like a curious
plete of needlework.
(-L) The ear, framed with windings and tlunings, to keep any-
llling from entering to oitend the brain; so disposed as to  
?Il11dB with the greatest safety and delight; illed with lin air within,
y the motion W ereof th7e sound is transmitted to t e rain :h as
sounds are made in the air by diffusing themselves, as you see circles
made in the water by the flinging in a stone. This is the gate_of
k;1owledge, whereby we hear the oracles of Goéi, ang the lnlstrugtipln
0 men for arts. It is by this they are expose to t e min an t e
mind of another man framed in our understandings. 1
th?) What a. curious workmanship is that if 111 éeagye, which isip
bodv,a.s the sim in the worl ° set in t e asinawatc -
bien having the softest nerves for ihe receivin% the greater multi-
tude of spirits necessary for the act of vision! ow is it provided
  defence, by the variety of coats to secure and accommodate the
little humor and part whereby the vision is made! Made of a round
"me, and convex, as most commodious to receive the species of
o Img; shaded by the eyebrows and eyelids; secured by the eye-
lids, which are its ornament and safety, which refresh it when it is
vrubmi q_ rrheoadermiaenonna "Eccles.xii.$
vox.. Lf-5

