66 CHARNOCK ON THE Arrarsurns.
too much dried b heat, hinder too much light from insinuating
itself into it to oihand it, cleanse it from impurities, by their quick
motion preserve it from any invasion, and by contraction confer to
the more evident discerning of things. Both the eyes seated in the
hollow of the bone for security, yet standing out, that things may be
erceived more easily on both sides. An this little member can
behold the earth, and in a moment view things as high as heaven.
(6.) The tongue for speech framed like a musical instrument; the
teeth serving for variety of sounds; the lungs serving for bellows to
blow the organs as it were, to cool the heart, by a continual motion
transmitting a pure air to the heart, expelling that which was smoky
and superfluous) It is by the tongue that communication of trut
hath a assage among men; it opens the sense of the mind; there
would be no converse and commerce without it. Speech among all
nations hath an elegancy and attractive force, mastering the affec-
tions of men. Not to speak of other parts, or of the multitude of
spirits that act every part; the quick flight of them where there is a
necessity of their presence. Solomon (Eccles. xii.) makes an elegant
description of trhem, in his speech of old age; and Job speaks of this
formation of the body (Job x. 9-li), &c. Not the least part of the
body is made in vain. The hairs o the head have their use, as well
as are an ornament. The whole symmetry of the body is a ravish-
ing object. Every member hath a signature and mark of God and
his wisdom. He is visible in the formation of the members, the
beauty of the parts, and the vigor ofthe body. This structure could
not be from t e body; that only hath a passive power, and cannot
act in the absence 'of the soul. Nor can it be from the soul. How
comes it then to be so ignorant of the manner of its formation? The
soul knows not the internal parts of its own bod , but by information
from others, or inspection into otherboclies. it knows less of the
inward frame of the body than it doth of itself; but he that makes
the clock can tell the number and motions of the wheels within, as
well as what figures are without.
This short discourse is useful to raise our admirations of the wis-
dom of God, as well as to demonstrate that there is an infinite wise
Creator; and the consideration of ourselves every day, and the wis-
dom of God in our frame, would maintain religion much in the
world; since all are so framed that no man can tell any error in the
constitution of him. If thus the body of man is fitted for the service
of his soul by an infinite God, the body ought to be ordered for the
service of this God, and in obedience to him.
2. In the admirable difference of the features of men; which is a
great argument that the world was made by a wise Being. This
could not be wrought by chance, or be the work of mere nature,
since we find never, or very rarely, two persons exactly alike. This
distinction is a part of infinite wisdom; otherwise what confusion
would be introduced into the world? \Vithout this, parents could
not know their children, nor children their arents, nor a brother
his sister, nor a subject his magistrate. Wigiout it there had been
no comfort of relations, no government, no commerce. D6btOl`l
' Coecei.sum.Theol.c.8.ยง49.

