'mn axrsrnncn or con. _ 67
would not have been known from strangers, nor good men from bud.
Propriety could not have been preserved, nor justice executed; the
innocent might have been a rehended for the nocent; wickedness
could not have been stoppedpgy any law. The faces of men are the
samefoilparta not for features, a dissimilitude in a likeness. Man,
like to the rest in the world, yet unlike to any, and differenced
by some mark from all, which is not to be observed in any other
species of creatures. This speaks some wise agent which framed
man; since, for the preservation of human society and order in the
world, this distinction wasnecessaryt
Secondly, As man’s own nature witnesseth a God to hinnin-the
stmctureof his body, so also “in the nature of his soul.”* We
know that we have an understanding in us; a substance we cannot
see, but we know it by its operations; as thinking, reasoning, willing,
remembering, and as operating about things that are invisible and
l%10fB from sense. This must needs be distinct from the body; for
that   but dust and earth in its original, hath not the power of
reasoning and thinking; for then it would have that Eower, when
the soul were absent, as well as when it is present. esides, if it
had that power of thinkin , it- could think only of those things
which are sensible, and mage up of matter, as itself is. This soul
hath a greater excellency; it can know itself, rejoice in itself, which
other creatures in this world are not capable of. The soul is the
gratest glory of this lower world; and, as one saith, “ There seems
to be no more difference between the soul and an angel, than between
a sword in the scabbard and when it is out of the sca.bbard."1
1. Consider the vastness of its capacity. The understanding can
conceive the whole world, and aint in itself the invisible pictures
of all things. It is capable ol) apprehending and discoursing of
things superior to its own nature. “ It is suited to all objects, as
the eye to all colors, or the ear to all sounds.”'“ How great is the
memory, to retain such varieties, such diversiti l The will also
can accommodate other thin to itselfl It invents arts for theilse
of man : rescribes rules for tl; government of -states; ransacks the
bowels 0? nature; makes endless conclusions, and stetps in reasoning
from one   to another, for the knowledge of t1'u It can con-
template and orm notions of   higher than the world.
2. The quickness of its motion. “Nothing is more cfuick in the
1-hole course of nature. The sun runs through the wor d in a day;
this can do it in a moment. It can, with one flight of fancy, ascend
to the battlements of heaven.”° The mists of the air, that hinder
the sight of the eye, cannot hinder the flights of the soul; it can
pm in a moment from one end of the worl to the other, and think
of   a thousand miles distant. It can think of some mean thing
in the world; and presently, by one cast, in the twinkling of an eye,
mom; up as high as heaven. As its desires are not. boimded by
mama] gbjecis, so neither are the motions of it restrained by them.
Itwill break forth with the eatest vigor, and conceive things in-
gnitgly above it; thoxh it is in the body, it acts as if it were
513,51 fp be cloister in it. This could not be the result of any
g lui ¢_ g_ § 50, 61. ' More. ' Cnlverwell. ' Theodoret.

