68 cmnsocx ON rms: Arrnmurss.
material cause. Whoever knew mere matter understand, think, will?
and what it hath not, it cannot give. That which is destitute of
reason and will, could never confer reason’and will. It is not the
effect of the body; for the body is fitted with members to be subject
to it. It is in part ruled by the activity of the soul, and in part by
the counsel of the soul; it is used by the soul, and knows not how it
is used.° Nor could it be from the parents, since the souls of the
children often transcend those of the parents in vivaeity, acuteness
and comprehensivcness. One man is stu id, and begets a son with
a capacious understanding; one is debauclied and beastly in morals,
and begets a son who, from his infanc , testifies some virtuous in-
clinations, which sprout forth in delightful fruit with the ripeness of
his age. Whence should this difference arise,-a fool begat the wise
man, and a debauched the virtuous man? The wisdom of the one
could not descend from the foolish soul of the other; nor the virtues
of the son, from the deformed and lluted soul of the parents It
lies not in the organs of the body: gi' if the folly of the parent pro-
ceeded not from their souls, but the ill dis osition of the organs of
their bodies, how comes it to pass that the biodies of the children are
better organized beyond the oodness of their immediate cause?
We must recur to some invisiile hand, that makes the diifcrence,
who bestows upon one at his pleasure richer qualities than upon an-
other. You can see nothing in the world endowed with some excel-
lult <Luality, but you must im 'ne some bountiful hand did enrich
it wit that dowry. None C2-Ili€€ so foolish as to think that a vesel
ever enriched itself with that sprightly lictior wherewith it is filled;
or that anything worse than the soul s ould endow it with that
knowledge and activity which sparkles in it. Nature could not
produce it. That nature is intelhgcnt, or not; if it be not, then it
produceth an effect more excellent than itself, inasmuch as an under-
standing being surmounts a being that hath no understanding. If
the supreme cause of the soul be intelligent, why do we not call it
God as well as nature? We must arise from hence to the notion of
a God; a spiritual natlue cannot proceed but from a spirit higher
than itself; and of a. transcendent perfection above itself If we be-
lieve we have souls, and understand the state of our own faculties,
we must be assured that there was some invisible hand which be-
stowed those faculties, and the riches of them upon us. A man must
be ignorant of himself before he can be ignorant of the existence of
God. B considering the natiue of our souls, we may as well be
assured that there is a God, as that there is a sun, b the shining of
the beams in at om' windows; and, indeed, the souly is a statue and
representation of God, as the landscape of a country or a map repre-
sents all the parts of it, but in a far less roportion than the country
itself is. The soul fills the body, and (lied the world; the soul sus-
tains the body, and God the world; the soul sees, but is not seen;
God sees all things, but is himself invisible. How base are they
' Coccei. sum. Thenlog. r. 8. itil, 52. '
_ I I do not dis ute whether t e soul were generated or no. Suppose the substance of
gvss gmsrstes by thepsreuts, yet those more excellent quslitaes werenot tharuult

