'ms nnsrnncn or con. 69
then that prostitute their souls, an image of God, to base things un-
expremibly below their own nature!
3. I might add, the union of soul and bod _ Man is a. kind of
compound of angel and beast, of soul and body; if he were only a
soul, he were a kind of angel; if only a body, he were another kind
of brute. Now that a body as vile and dull as earth, and a soul that
can mount sip to heaven, and rove about the world, with so quick a
motion, sho d be linked in so strait an acquaintance; that so noble
a being as the soul should be inhabitant in such a. tabernacle of clay,
mustbe owned to some infinite power that hath so chainedeit.
Thirdly, Man witnesseth to a God in the operations and reflections
of conscience. (Rom.   15), “Their thoughts are accusing or excu-
sing." An inward comfort attends good actions, and an inward tor-
ment follows bad ones; for there is in every man’s consciencefear
of punishment and ho of reward; there is, therefore, a. sense of
some superior judge, wllgch hath the power both of rewarding and
punishing. If man were his supreme rule, what need he fear pun-
ishment, since no man would inflict any evil or torment on himself;
nor can any man be said to reward himself; for all rewards refer to
another, to whom the action is pleasing, and is a confening some good
a man had not before; if an action be done by a subject or servant,
with hopes of reward, it cannot be imagined that he expects a reward
from himself; but from the prince or person whom he eyes in that
action, and for whose sake he doth it.
1. There is a law in the minds of men which is a rule of good and
Wil. There is a notion of good and evil in the consciences of men,
which is evident b those laws which are common in all countries,
for the preserving human societies, the encouragement of virtue, and
dhcouragement of vice; what standard should they have for those
laws but a common reason? the design of those laws was to keep
menwithin the bounds of goodness for mutual commerce, whence
the apostle calls the heathen magistrate a “minister of God for good”
(Rom.   4§0and “the Gentiles do by nature the things contained
In the law" ( m.   14).
_Man in the 'first instant of the use of reason, finds natural prin-
qples within himself; directing and choosing them, he finds a dis-
knction between good and evil; how could this be if there were not
Home rule in him to tr and distinguish good and evil? If there
was not such a law andy rule in man, he could not sin; for where
there is no law there is no tran ffression. If man were a law to
himself; and his own will his law,sthere could be no such thing as
Wil; whatsoever he willed, would be good and agreeable to the law,
and no action could’be accoimted sinful; the worst act would be as
commendable as the best. Everything at man’s appointment would
be good or evil. If there were no such law, how should men that
are naturally inclined to evil disaplprove of that which is unlovely,
Fld rove of that good which ey practise not? No man but
1l\W&i'§l)v thinks well of that which is ood, while he ne lects it; and
flginks ill of that wlpch is gevil, while gehwmmits it. 'lghose tlgtilare
uo<m',d0prais¢tosetat ractisetecontraryvirtues. ose
“N are evil would seem to be Igood, and those that are blameworthy
w-
;

