70 cnaasocx ON 'frm arrnrswrns.
yet will rebuke evil in others. This is really to   between
good and evil; whence doth this arise, b what rule do we measure
this, but by some innate principle? Andy this is universal, the same
in one man as in another, the same in one nation as in another;
they are born with every man, and inseparable from his nature (Prev.
xxvii. 19): as in water, face answers to face, so the heart of man to
man. Common reason supposeth that there is some hand which
hath Hxed this distinction in man; how could it else be universally
impressed? No law can be without a lawgiver: no sparks but must
be kindled, by some other. Whence should this law then derive its
original? Not from man; he would 'fain blot it out, and cannot
alter it when he pleases. Nat1u°al generation never intended it; it
is settled therefore by some higher hand, which, as it imprinted it,
so it maintains it against the violence of men, who, were it not for
this law, would make the world more than it is, an aceldama and
field of blood; for had there not been some supreme good, the
measure of all other goodness in the world, we could not have had
such a thing as good. The Scri ture gives us an account that this
good was distinguished from evil before man fell, they were olyécla
scibilia; good was commanded and evil prohibited, and did not depend
upon man. From this a man may rationally be instructed that there
is a God; for he may thus argue: I End myself naturally obliged to
do this thing, and avoid that; I have, therefore, a superior that doth
oblige me; I find something within me that directs me to such actions,
contrary to my sensitive appetite; ‘there must be something above
me, therefore, that puts this principle into man’s nature; if there
were no su rior, I should be the supreme judge of good and evil;
were I the ldrd of that law which doth oblige me, I should find no
contradiction within myself, between reason and appetite.
2. From the transgression of this law of nature, fears do arise in
the consciences of men. Have we not known or heard of men struck
by so deep a dart, that could not be drawn out by the strength of
men, or appeased by the pleasure of the world; and men crying out
with horror, upon a death-bed, of their past life, when “their fear
hath come as a desolation, and destruction as a whirlwind ?” (Prev.
i. 27): @i1d often in some sharp aiiliction, the dust hath been blown
off from men’s consciences, which for a while hath obscured the
writing of the la@ If men stand in awe of punishment, there is
then some superior to whom they are accountable; if there were
no God, there were no punishment to fear. \Vhat reason of any fear,
upon the dissolution of the knot betwen the soul and body, if there were
not a God to punish, and the soul remained not in being to be pun-
ished? How suddenly will conscience Work upon the appearance
of an atliiction, rouse itself from sleep like an armed man, and Hy
in a man’s face before he is aware of it! It will “ surprise the hyp-
ocrites” (Isa. xxxviii. 14): it will bring to mind actions committed
long a o, and set them in order before the face, as God’s deputy,
acting by his authority and ornniscience. As God hath not left him-
self without a witness among the creatures (Acts xiv. 17), so he hath
not left himself without a witness in a mau’s own breast.
(1.) This operation of conscience hath been universal. No nation

