TEE nxrsrnncn or son. 71
hath been any more exempt from it than fi-om reason; not a nran
but hath one time or other more or less smarted under the sting of
rt All over the world conscience hath shot its darts; it hath torn
the hearts of   in the midst of their pleasures; it hath not flat-
tered them w m most men flatter; nor feared to disturb their rest,
whom no man dares to#provoke. Judges have trembled on a tribu-
nal, when innocents have rejoiced in their condemnation. The iron
bars upon Pharaohs conscience, were at last broke up, and he ac-
knowledged the justice of God in all~ that he did, (Exod. ix. 27): “]
have sinned, the Lord is righteous, and I and my people are wicked.”
Had they been like childish frights at the a prehension of bugbears,
why ha not reason shaken them 05? liiut, on the contrary, the
stronger reason grows, the smarter those lashes are; groundless fears
had been short-lived, age and jud ent would have worn them ofi but
they grow sharper with the growtlilimf persons. The Scripture informs
us they have been of as ancient a date as the revolt of the first man,
(Gen.   10): “ I was afraid," saith Adam, “because I was naked;’
which was an expectation of the judgment of God. All his pos-
terity inherit his ears, when God expresseth himself in any tokens
of his majesty and providence in the world, Every man’s conscience
testifies that he is unlike what he ought to be, according to that law
engraven upon his heart. In some, indeed, conscience may be seared
or dimmer; or suppose some men may be devoid of conscience, shall
it be denied to be a thing belonging to the nature of man? Some
men have not their eyes, yet the power of seeing the light is D8»t'l1I`8»l
to man, and belongs to the integrity of the body. Who would argl?
that, because some men are mad, and have lost their reason by a ` -
temper of the brain, that therefore reason hath no reality, but is an
imaginary thing? But I think it is a standing truth that every man
hath been under the scourge of it, one time or other, in a less or a
greater degree; for, since every man is an offender, it cannot be im-
agined, conscience, which is natural to man, and an active faculty,
should always lie idle, without doing this part of its office. The
apostle tells us of the thoughts accusing or excusing one another, (or
by turns,) accordinglas the actions were. Nor is this truth weakened by
the corruptions in t e world, whereby many have thought themselves
bound in conscience to adhere to a false and superstitious worship
and idolatry, as much as any have thought themselves bound to adhere
to a worship commanded by God. This very thing infers that all men
have a. reflecting principle in them; it is no argument against the
be' of conscience, but only infers that it may err in the application
of liigrat it naturally owns. We can no more say, that because some
men walk by a. false rule, there is no such thing as conscience, than we
can say that because men have errors in their minds, therefore they
have no such faculty as an understanding; or because men will that
yhigh ig evil, they have no such faculty as a will in them.
(2_) These 0 rations of conscience are when the' wickedness is
mmf gee;-ez, lllfese tormenting fears of vengeance have been freiulent
br men, whc~ have had no reason to fear man, since their wicke ess
- unknown to any but themselves, they could_ have no accuser
but emselveg, They have been in many acts which then' compan-

