1
72 , cnmnocx ON 'rms Arrmsurss.
ions have justified them in ; giprsons above the stroke of human laws,
yea, such as the people have onored as gods, have been haunted by
them. Conscience hath not been frighted by the power of princes,
or bribed by the pleasures of courts. David was pursued by his
horrors, when he was, by reason of his dignit , above the punish-
ment of the law, or, at least, was not reachedyby the law; since,
though the murder of Uriah was intended by him, it was not acted
by him. Such examples are frequent in human records; when the
crime hath been above any punishment by man, they `have had an
accuser, judge, and executioner in their own breasts. Can this be
originally from a man’s self? He who loves and cherishes himself
would ily from anything that disturbs him; it is a greater power and
majesty from whom man cannot hide himself, that holds him in those
fetters. What should affect their minds for that which can never
bring them shame or punishment in this world, if there were not some
supreme judge to whom they were to give an account, whose instru~
ment conscience is? Doth it do this of itself? hath it received an
authority from the man himself to sting him? It is some supreme
power t at doth direct and commission it against our wills.
(I-3.) These operations of conscience cannot be totally shaken off
by man. If there be no God, why do not men silence the clamors
of their consciences, and scatter those fears that disturb their rest and
pleasures? How inquisitive are men after some remedy against those
convulsionsl Sometimes they would render the charge insignificant,
and sing a rest to themselves, though they “ walk in the wickedness
of their own hearts.”<\ How often do men attempt to drown it by
sensual pleasures, and perhaps overpower it for a time ; but it revives,
rcinforceth itself, and acts a revenge for its former stop. It holds
sin to a man’s view, and fixes his eyes upon it, whether he will or
no. “ The wicked are like a troubled sea, and cannot rest,” (Isa.
lvii. 2O): they would wallow in sin without control, but this inward
giinciple will not suffer it ; nothing can shelter men from those blows.
hat is the reason it could never be cried down? Man is an enemy
to his own disquiet; what man would continue upon the rack, if it
were in his power to deliver himself? Why have all human reme-
dies been without success, and not able to extinguish those operations,
though all the wickedness of the heart hath been ready to assist and
second the attempt? It hath pursued men notwithstanding all the
violence used against it; and renewed its scourges with more severity,
as men deal with their resisting slaves. Man can as little silence
those thunders in his soul, as he can the thunders in the heavens;
he must stiip himself of his humanity, before he can be strip ied of
an accusing and atfrighting conscience; it sticks as close to iiim as
his nature ; since man cannot throw out the process it makes against
him, it is an evidence that some higher power secures its throne and
standing. W'ho should put this scourge into the hand of conscience,
which no man in the world is able to wrest out?
(4.) ¥Ve may add, the comfortable reflections of conscience. There
are excusing, aswell as accusing reflections of conscience, when things
are done as works of the “law of nature,” (Rom.   15): as it doth
_ ‘I Deut.. xxix. 19.

