rm: nnsrnncn or eou. 78
notforhear to accuse and torture, when a wickedness, though un-
known to others, is committed; so when a man hath done well,
though he be attacked with all the ealumnies the wit of man can
forge, yet his conscience justifies the action, and fills him with a
singular contentment As there is torture in sinnin , so there is
pwce and joy in well-doing. Neither of those it could do, if it did
not understand a Sov ` Judge, who punishes the rebels, and
rewards the well-doer.  ienw is the foundation of all religion;
and the two pillars gpon which it is built, are the being of
God, and the bounty 0 God to time that “diligently seek hinygg
This provw the existence of God. If there were no God, conscience
were useless; the operations of it would have no foundation, if there
were not an eye to take notice, and a hand to punish or reward the
action. The accusations of conscience evidence the omniscience and
the holiness of God; the terrors of conscience, the justice of God;
the approbations of conscience, the goodness of God. All the order
in the world owes itself, next to the rovidence of God, to conscience;
without it the World would be a golgotha. As the creatures wit-
ness there was a first cause that produced them, so this rinciple in
man evidenceth itself to be set by the same hand, for the good of-
that which it had so framed. There could be no conscience if there
were no God, and man could not be a. rational creature, if there
were no conscience. As there is a rule in us, there must be a judge,
yhether our actions be according to the rule. And since conscience
m our corrupted state is in some particular misled, there must be a
power superior to conscience, to judge how it hath behaved itself in
Rs deputed office; we must come to some supreme judge, who can
judge conscience itseli As a man can have no surer evidence that
he is a being, than because he thinks he is a thinking being ; so there
is no surer evidence in nature that there is a God, than that every man
hath a natural principle in him, which continually citeshimbefore God,
and puts him rn mind of him, and makes him one way or other fear
him, and reflects upon him whether he will or no. A man hath less
power over his conscience, than over any other faculty ; he may choose
'bother he will exercise his understanding about, or move his will to
Such an object ; but he hath no such authority over his conscience: he
cannot limit it, or cause it to cease from acting and reflecting; and
iherefore, both that, and the law about which it acts, are settled by
some Su reme Authority in the mind of man, and this is God.
Fourtllily. -The evidence of a God results from the vastness of de-
firesin man, and the real dissatisfaction he hath in everything be-
lowhimselil Man hath a. boundless appetite after some sovereign
good; as his understanding is more capacious than anythin below,
soishis appetite larger. This affection of desire exceeds 511 other
liections. Love is etermined to something known; fear, `to some-
thillg apprehended: but desires approach nearer to infiniteness, and
Pursue, not only what we know, or what we have a   of, but
what we find wanting in what we already enjoy. at which the
desimof man is most naturally carried after is bonum; some fully
Uwying good. We desire knowledge by the sole impulse of reason,
' Heb. xi. 6.

