74 ' crunuocx ON THE xrrnmurns.
but we desire good before the excitement of reason; and the desire
is always after good, but not always after knowledge. Now the soul
of man finds an imperfection in everything here, and cannot scrape
up a perfect satisfaction and felicity. In the hi heat fruitions of
worldly things it is still pursuing something else, wliich speaks a de-
fect in what it already hath. 'l‘he world may afford a felicity for
our dust, the body, but not for the inhabitant in it; it is too mean
for that. Is there any one soul among the sons of men, that can
upon a due inquiry sa. it was at rest and wanted no more, that hath
not sometimes had desires after an immaterial good? The soul
“ follows hard aft/er" such a thing, and hath frequent looks after it
(Ps. lxiii. 8). Man desires a. stab e good, but no sublunary thing is
so; and he that doth not desire such a good, wants the rational
nature of' a man. This is as natural as understanding, will, and
conscience. Whence should the soul of man have those desires?
how came it to understand that something is still wanting to make
its nature more perfect, if there were not in it some notion of a more
perfect being which can give it rest? Can such a capacity be sup-
posed to be in it without something in being able to satisfy it? if so,
the noblest creature in the world is miserablest, and in a worse con-
dition than any other. Other creatures obtain their ultimate desires,
“they are filled with good,” (Ps. civ. 28) : and shall man only have
a vast desire without any possibility of enjoyment? Nothing in man
is in vain; he hath objects for his affections, as well as affections for
objects; every member of his body hath its end, and doth attain it ;
every affection of his soul hath an object, and that in this world;
and shall there be none for his desire, which comes nearest to infinite
of any affection planted in him? This boundless desire had not its
original from man himself ; nothing would render itself restless;
something above the bounds of this world implanted those desires
after a higher good, and made him restless in everything else. And
since the soul can only rest in that which is infinite, there is some-
thing infinite for it to rest in ; since nothing in the world, thou h a
man had the whole, can give it a satisfaction, there is sometiing
above the world only ca able to do it, otherwise the soul would be
always without it, and be more in vain than an other creature.
There is, therefore, some infinite being that can onlly give a content-
ment to the soul, and this is God. And that goodness which im-
planted such desires in the soul, would not do it to no purpose, and
mock it in giving it an infinite desire of satisfaction, without intend-
ing it the pleasure of enjoyment, if it doth not by its own folly dc-
pnve itself of it. The felicity of human nature must needs exceed
that which is allotted to other creatures.
Reason IV. As it is a foll to deny that which all nations in the
world have consented to, wlilich the frame of the world evidenceth,
which man in his body, soul, operations of conscience, Witnesscth
to; so it is a folly to deny the being of God, which is witnessed unto
by extraordinary occurrences in the world.
1. In extraordinary judgments. When a just revenge follows
abominable crimes, especially when the judgment is suited to the
sin by a strange concatenation and succession of providences, method-

