'nm Exrsrsncn or con. - 75
led tn bring such a particular punishment; when the sin of a nation
or person is made legible in the inflicted judgment, which testifies
that it cannot be a casual thing. The Scripture gives us an account
of the necessity of such judgments, to kee up the reverential thoughts
of God in the world (Ps. ix. 16): “ The lord is known by the judg-
ment which he executes; the wicked is snared in the work of his
own hand: and jealousy is the name of God, (Exod. xxxiv.14),
“Whose name is jealous.” He is distinguished from false gods by
the judgments which he sends, as men are by their names. Extra-
ordinary prodigies in many nations have been the heralds bf extra-
ordinary judgments, and presages of the particular judgments which
aherwards they have felt, of which the Roman histories, and others,
are full. That there are such things is undeniable, and that the
events have been answerable to the threatenin , unless we will
throw away all human testimonies, and count all ie histories of the
world fo eries. Such things are evidences of some invisible power
which 0l;§B1'B those   And   there he invisible powers, there
isalso 'an eiiicacious cause which moves them; a government eer-
tainly there is among them, as well as in the world, and then we
must come to some supreme governor which presides over them.
Jndgcments upon notorious offenders have been evident in all ages;
the ripture gives many instances. I shall only mention that of
Herod Agrippa, which Josephus mentions.” He receives the flatter-
ing applause of the people, and thought himself a God; but by the sud-
den stroke upon him, was forced by his tort\u~e to confess another.
“I am God," saith he, “ in your accolmt, but a higher calls me awa ;
the will of the heavenly Deity is to be endured." The angel of the
Lord smote him. The judgment here was suited to the sin; he that
would be a god, is eaten up of worms, the vilest creatures. Tully
Hostilius, a Roman king, whe counted it the most unroyal thing to
be religious, or own an -other God but his sword, was consumed
himself, and his whole house, by lightning from heaven. Many
things are unaccountable unless we have recourse to God. The
strange revelations of murderers, that 'have most secretly committed
their crimes, the makin good some dreadful impreeations, which
some wretches have used to eonirm a lie, and immediately have
been struck with that judgment they wished; the raising often unex-°
pected persons to be instruments o vengeance on a sinful and per-
iidious nation; the overturning the deepest and surest counsels of
men, when- they have had a suceessfu progress, and come to the
very int of execution; the whole design of men’s preservation hath
been ggaten in pieces by some unforeseen circumstance, so that judg-
ments have bro en in u n them without control, and all their sub-
tleties been outwitted; the strange crossing of some in their estates,
though the most wise, industrious, and frugal ersons, and that by
iuange and unexpected ways; and it is observalile how often every-
ming egntributes to carry on a judgment intended, as if they ration-
,ny designed it: all those loudly proclaim a God in the world; if
gli,-e were no God, there would be no sin; if no sin, there would be
no p1m1shm° ent- - _
° lib. xix. Anriq. Acts xii. 21-28.

