76 CHARNOCK ON 'ms xrrnmwrss.
2. In miracles. The course of nature is uniform; and when it is
put out of its course, it must be by some superior power invisible to
the world; and by whatsoever invisible instruments they are wrought,
the efiicacy of them must deipend upon some Hrst cause above nature.
§Psalm lxxii. 18): “Blesse be the Lord God of Israel, who onl
oeth wondrous things,” by himself and his sole power, That which
cannot be the result of a natural cause, must be the result of some-
thing supernatural: what is beyond the reach of nature, is the effect
of a power superior to nature; for it is quite against the order of
nature, and is the elevation of something to such a itch, which all
nature could not advance it to. Nature cannot go iieyond its own
limits; if it be determined by another, as hath been formerly proved,
it cannot lift itself above itself, without that power that so determined
it. Natiual agents act necessarily; the sun doth necessarily shine,
fire doth necessarily burn: that cannot be the result of nature, which
is above the abilit of nature; that cannot be the work of nature
which is against the order of nature; nature cannot do anythin
against itself, or invert its own course. We must own that such
things have been, or we must accuse all the records of former ages
to be a pack of lies; which whosoever doth, destroys the eatest
and best pa.rt of human knowledge. The miracles mentioned-rin the
Scri ture, wrought b our Saviour, are acknowledged by the heathen,
by tlie Jews at this £ty, though his greatest enemies. There is no
dis ute whether such things were wrought, “the dead raised,” the
“blind restored to sight." The heathens have acknowledged the
miraculous eclipse of the sun at the passion of Christ, quite against
the rule of nature, the moon being then in opposition to the sun;
the pro agation of Christianity contrary to the methods whereby
other religions have been propagated, that in a. few years the nations
of the world should be sprinkled with this doctrine, and give in a
greater catalogue of martyrs courting the devourin flames, than all
the religions of the wor d. To this might be agded, the strange
hand that was over the Jews, the only eople in the world professing
the' true God, that should so often be befriended b their conquer-
ors, so as to rebuild their temple, though they were lboked upon as a
people apt to rebel. Dion and Seneca observe, that wherever they
were transplanted, they prospered, and gave laws to the victors; so that
this proves also the aut ority of the Scripture, the truth of christian
religion, as well as the being of a God, and a superior power over
the world. To this might be added, the bridling the tumultuous pas-
sions of men for the preservation of human societies, which else
would run the world into unconceivable confusions, (Psalm lxv. 7 ):
“ Which stilleth the noise of the sea, and the tumults of the people;"
as also the miraculous deliverance of a person or nation, when upon
the very brink of ruin; the sudden answer of prayer when God hath
been sought to, and the turning away a judgment, which in reason
could not be expected to be averted, and the raisin a sunk people
from a. ruin which seemed inevitable, bryhunexpecteg wa s.
3. Accomplishments of prophecies. ose t ings which are purely
contingent, and cannot be known by natural signs and in their
causes, as eclipses and changes in nations, which may be discerned

