nm nxisrnxcn or con. 77
by an observation of the signs of the times; such things tnat fall not
within this comlpass if they be foretold and come to pass, are solely
from some hig er hand, and above the cause of nature. This in
Scripture is amerted to be a notice of the true God (Isa. xli. 23):
“ Show the things that are to come hereafter, that we .na know that
you are God,” and (Isa. xlvi. 10), “I am God declaring the end from
the   from ancient times the things that are not yet
done, saying, y counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure.”
And prlplphecy was consented to by all the philosophers to be from
divine ` umination: that power which discovers things future, which
all the foresight of men cannot ken and con`ecture, is above nature.
And to foretell them so certainly as if they did already exist, or had
existed long ago, must be the result of a mind infinitely intelligent;
because it is the highest way of knowing, and a higher cannot be
ilinedz and he that knows things future in such a manner, must
n know things present and past. Cyrus was prophesied of by
Isaiah (xliv. 28, and xlv. 1) long before e was born; his victories,
spoils, all that should happen m Bab lon, his bounty to the Jews
came to paw, according to that prophecy; and the sight of that
prophecy which the Jews shewed him, as other historians report,
was that which moved him to be favorable to the Jews.
Alexander’s sight of Daniel’s prophecy concerning his victories
moved him to spare Jerusalem. And are not the four monarchies
plhagly deciphered in that book, before the fourth rose up in the world?
power which foretells things beyond the reach of the wit of
man, and orders all causes to bring about those predictions, must be
an infinite power, the same that made the world, sustains it and gov-
erns all things in it   to his pleasure, and to bring about his
own ends; and this being is God.
Use I. If atheism be a foll , it is then pernicious to the world and
to the atheist himself Wisdom is the band of human societies, the
ry of man. Folly is the disturber of families, cities, nations; the
` of human nature.
irst, It is dpernicious to the world. ‘
1. It woul root out the foundations of government. It demolish-
eth all order in nations. The being of a God is the rguard of the
world: the sense of a God is the foundation of civil o er: without
this there is no tie upon the consciences of men. What force would
there be in oaths for the decisions of controversies, what right could
there be in appeals made to one that had no being?   city of athe-
ists would be a hea of confusion; there could be no ground of any
commerce, when all) the sacred bands of it in the consciences of men
were snapt asunder, which are rn to pieces and utteléliy destroyed
by den ` the existence of   What m `strate co d be secure
in his   ? what rivate person couldage secure in his right?
Can that then be a truth that is destructive of all public good? If
the atheist’s sentiment, that there were no God, were a truth, and the
that there were a. God, were a talsity, it would then follow,
dm   made men good and serviceable to one another; that
ezmr were the foundation of all the beauty, and order, and outward

