78 cHABNocx ON 'ras Arrnmurrs.
felicity of the world, the fountain of all good to man! If there were
no God, to believe there is one, would be an e1'ror; and to believe
there is none, would be the greatest wisdom, because it would be the
greatest truth. And then as it is the greatest wisdom to fear God,
upon the apprehension of his existence, so it would be the greatest
error to fear him if there were none.“ It would unquestionably fol-
low, that error is the support of the world, the spring of all human
advantages; and that every part of the world were obliged to a falsity
for being a. quiet habitation, which is the most absurd thing to ima-
gine. It is a thing impossible to be tolerated by any prince, without
laying an axe to the root of the government.
2. It would introduce all evil into the world. Ifyou take away
God, you take away conscience, and thereby all measures and rules
of good and evil. And how could any laws be made when the
measure and standard of them were removed? All good laws are
founded upon the dictates of conscience and reason, upon common
sentiments in human nature, which spring from a sense of God; so
that if the foundation be demolished, the whole superstructure must
tumble down: a man might be a thief, a murderer, an adulterer, and
could not in a strict sense be an offender. The worst of .actions could
not be evil, if a man were a god to himself, a law to himself Noth-
ing but evil deserves a censure, and nothing would be evil if there
were no God, the Rector of the world against whom evil is properly
committed. No man can make that morally evil that is not so in
itself : as where there is a faint sense of God, the heart' is more
strongly inclined to wickedness; so where there is no sense of God,
the bars are removed, the Hood-gates set open for all wickedness to
rush in upon mankind. Religion pinions men from abominable
practices, and restrains them from being slaves to their own passions:
an atheist’s arms would be loose to do anything."* Nothing so vil-
lanous and unjust but would be acted if- the natural fear of a Deity
were extinguished. The Hrst consequence issuing from the appre-
hension of the existence of God, is his government of the world.
If there be no God, then the natural consequence is that there is no
supreme government of the world: such a notion would' cashier all
sentiments of good, and be like a. Trojan horse, whence all impurity,
tyranny, and all sorts of mischiefs would break out u on mankin :
corruption and abominable works in the text are the fruit of the
fool’s persuasion that there is no God. The perverting the ways of
men, oppression and extortion, owe their rise to a forgetfulness of
God (Jer.   21): “ They have erverted their wa , and they have
forgotten the Lord their God.” dillzek. xxii. 12): “ Thou hast greed-
ily gained by extortion, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord.”
The whole earth would be Hlled with violence, all flesh would cor-
ru t their way, as it was before the deluge, when probably atheism
did abound more than idolatry; and if not a disownin the being,
yet denying the ‘providence of God by the posterity of gain: those
of the family o Seth only “calling upon the name of the Lord"
(Gen. vi. 11, 12, compared with Gen. iv. 26%
The greatest sense of a Deity in any, hat been attended with the
* Iessius de Provid. p. 665. ' Psalm cxi. 10. ' Lessius de Provid. p. 664.

