I
'nm sxrsrnncn or son. 7
greatest innocence of life and usefulness to others; and a weaker
sense hath been attended with a baser impurity. If there were no
God, blasphemy would be praiseworthyx; as the redptroach of idols is
mvworthyé because we   that t ere is no `vinity in them.y
mn more contempti le than that which hath no being?
Sin would be only a false opinion of a violated law, and an offended
deity. If such apprehensions prevail, what a wide door is opened to
the worst of villaniesl If there be no God, no respect is due to him;
all the religion in the world is a trifle, and error; and thus the pillars
of all human society, and that which hath made commonwealths to
flourish, are blown away.
Secondly, It is pernicious to the atheist himself If he fear no
future punishm t, he can never expect any fimue reward: all his
hopes must be confined to a swinish and despicable manner of life,
without any imaginations of so much as a drachm of reserved hag;
inesst He is in a worse condition than the silliest animal, whic
hath something to please it in its life: whereas an atheist can have
nothing here to 've him afull content, no more than an other man
in the world, and! can have less satisfaction hereafter. lie de oseth
the noble end of his own being, which was toserve a God and) have
a satisfaction in him, to seek aGod and be rewarded byhim; and he
that departs hom his end, recedes from his own nature. All the
content any creature finds, is in performing its end, moving accord-
ing to its natural instinct; as it is a joy to the sun to run its race!
In the same manner it is a. satisfaction to every other creature, and
its delight to observe the law of its creation. What content can any
man have that runs from his end, opposeth his own nature, denies a'
God by whom and for whom he was created, whose image he bears,
which is the glory of his nature, and sinks into the very dregs of
brntishness? How cle tly it is described by Bildad,* “ His own
counsel shall cast him gdlvlin, terrors shall make him afraid on every
ide, dwtruction shall be ready at his side, the ‘first-born of deat
shall devour his strength, his confidence shall be rooted out, and it
shall bring him to the king of terrors Brimstone shall he scattered
his habimtion; he shall be driven from light into darkness, and
md out of the world. They that come alter him shall be aston-
ished at his day, as they that went before were ai’frig)hted. And this
h the lace of him that knows not God.”'* Ifthere e a fixture reck-
  his own conscience cannot but sometimes inform him of),
his condition is desperate, and his misery dreadful and unavoidable.
If ig not ` hteous a hell should entertain any else, if it refuse him.
Une ]1n§ow lamentable is it, that in our times this folly of athe-
hm should be so rife! That there should be found such monsters
in human nature, in the midst of the -improvements of reason, and
shinings of the gospel., who not only make the   the matter
of their jeels, but scoff at the judgments and provi ences of God m
the world, and envy their Creator a being, without whose goodness
they had none themselves; who contradict in their carriage what
they asert to be their sentiment, when they dreadtiilly imprecate
| Lessius de Provid. p. 665. I Psalm xix. 5.
°Jobxviii.'1,8,&atotheend. *Ver.2t.

