1
80 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
damnation to themselves! Whenee should that damnation they so
rashl wish be poured forth upon them, if there were not a reveng-
ing god? Formerly atheism was as rare as prodigious, scarce two
or three known in an age; and those that are reported to be so in
iiirmer ages, are rather thought to be counted so for mocking at the
senseless deities the common people adored, and laying open their
impurities. A mere natural strength would easily discover that
those they adored for gods, could not deserve that title, since their
original was known, their uncleanness manifest and acknowledged
by their worshippers. And probably it was so; since the Christians
were termed &0wf, because they acknowledged not their vain idols.¢
I question whether there ever was, or can be in the world, an un-
interrupted and internal denial of the being of God, or that men
Sunless we can suppose conscience utterly dead) can arrive to such a
egree of impiety; for before they can stifle such sentiments in them
(whatsoever they may assert), they must be utter strangers to the
common conceptions of reason, and desgoil themselves of their
own humanity. He that dares to deny a od with his lips, yet sets
up something or other as a God in his heart. Is it not amentable
that this sacred truth, _consented to by all nations, which is the band
of' civil societies, the source of all order in the world, should be de-
nied with a bare face, and dis uted against in companies, and the
glory of a wise Creator ascribed) to an unintelli ent nature, to blind
chance? Are not such worse than heathensii They worshipped
many gods, these none; they preserved a notion of Go in the world
under a disguise of images, these would banish him both from earth
and heaven, and demolish the statutes of him in their own con-
sciences; they degraded him, these would destroy him; they coupled
creatures with him-(Rom. i. 25), “ Vi/'ho wors ip(ped the creature
with the Creator,” as it may most properly be ren ered-and these
would make him worse than the creature, a mere nothing. Earth is
hereby become worse than hell. Atheism is a persuasion which
Ends no footing an where else. Hell, that receives such ersons, in
this point reforms diem: they can never deny or doubt of? his bein ,
While they feel his strokes. The devil, that rejoiccs at their wicked-
ness, knows them to be in an error; for he “ believes, and trembles
at the belie£”‘| This is a. forerunner of judgment. Boldness in sin
is a presage of vengeance, especially when the honor of God is more
particularly concerned therein; it tends to the overturning human
society, taking off the bridle from the wicked inclinations of men:
and God appears not in such visible jud€nents against sin imme-
diately committed against himself, as in t e case of those sins that
are destructive to human society. Besides, God, as Governor of the
world, will u hold that, without which all his ordinances in the
world would hie useless. Atheism is oint blank against all the glory
of God in creation, and against all the glory of God in redemption,
and pronounceth at one breath, both the Creator, and all acts of re-
ligion and divine institutions, useless and insignificant. Since most
have had, one time or other, some risings of doubt, whether there be
a God, though few do in expressions deny his being, it may not be
° As Justin informs us. 4 James ii. 19.

