THE sxtsrsncs or con. 81
unneeesary to repose some things for the further impreming this
truth, and   themselves `nst such temptations.
1. It is utterly impossible toaggiiioustrate there is no God. He
can choose no medium, but will fall in as a proof for his existence,
and a manifestation of his excellency, rather than against it. The
pnetences of the atheist are so ridiculous, that they are not worth the
mentioning. They never saw God, and therefore know not how to
believe such a being; they cannot comprehend him. He would not
be a God, if he could fall within the narrow model of a human under-
standing; he would not be infinite, if he were comprehensible, or to
be terminated b our sight. How small a thing must that be which
isseen by a. bodily eye, or   b a weak mind! IfGod were
visible or comprehensible, e would be limited. Shall it be a suffi-
cient demonstration from a blind man, that there is no fire in the
room, because he sees it not, though he feel the warmth of it? The
knowledge of the effect is sufiicient to conclude the existence of the
cause. Who ever saw his own life? Is it sufficient to deny a man
lives, because he beholds not his life, and only knows it by his
motion ? He never saw his own soul, but knows he hath one by his
thinking power. The air renders itself sensible to men in its opera-
tions, yet. was never seen by the eye. If God should render himself
visible, they might question as well as now, whether that which was
so visible were God, or some delusion. If he should appear glorious,
we can as little behold him in his majestic glory, as an owl can behold
the sun in its brightness: we should still but see him in his effects,
as we do the sun b his beams. If he should show a new miracle,
we should still see   but by his works; so we see him in his crea-
tures, every one of which would be as great a miracle as any can be
wrought, to one that had the first prospect of them. To require to
see God, is to require that which is impossible (1 Tim. vi. 16): “ He
dwells in the light which no man can approach unto, whom no man
hath seen, nor can see.” It is visible that he is, “for he covers him-
self with light- as with a arment” (Psalm civ. 2); it is visible what
he is, “for he makes dariness his secret place” (Psalm xviii. 13.
Nothing more clear to the e e than light, and nothing more ditiic t
to the understanding than tlle nature of it: as light is the first object
obvious to the eye, so is God the first object obvious to .the under-
standing; The arguments from nature do, with greater strength,
evince is existence, than any pretences. can manifest there is no
God. No man can assure himse f by any good reason there is none;
for as for the likeness of events to him that is righteous, and him that
is wicked; to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacriiiceth not
(Eccles. ix. 2): it is an argument for a reserve of judgment in
another state, which every man’s conscience dictates to him, when
the justice of God shall be glorified in another world, as much as his
patience is in this.
2. Whosoever doubts of it, makes himselfa mark, against which
all the creatures fight. All the stars fought against Sisera for Israel:
all thc stars in heaven, and the dust on earth, iight for God against
the atheist He hath as many arguments against him as there are
creatlues in the whole compass of heaven and earth. He is most
vox.. 1.-6

