82 clusnocx ON 'mrs srramurns.
unreasonable, that denies or doubts of that whose image and shadow
he sees round about him; he may sooner deny the sun that warms
him, the moon that in night walks in her bri htness, deny the fruits
he enjoys from the earth, ea., and deny that he doth exist. He must
tear his own conscience, ilyy from his own thoughts, be changed into
the nature of a stone, which hath neither reason nor sense, before he
can disengage himself from those arguments which evince the being
of a God. He that would make the natural religion profemed in the
world a mere romance, must give the lie to the common sense of
-mankind; he must be at an irreconcilable enmity with his own rea-
son, resolve to hear nothing that it speaks, if he will not hear what
it speaks in this case, with a greater evidence than it can ascertain
anything else. God hath so settled himself in the reason of man,
that he must vilify the noblest faculty God hath given him, and put
off nature itself before he can blot out the notion of a God.
3. No question but those that have been so bold as to deny that
there was a God, have sometimes been much afraid the have been
in an error, and have at least suspected there was a. God? when some
sudden prodigy hath presented itself to them, and roused their fears;
and whatsoever sentiments the might have in their blinding pros-
perity, they have had other kind of motions in them in their stormy
aillictions, and, like J onah’s mariners, have been ready to cry to him
for help, whom they disdained to own so much as in being, while
they swam in their pleasures. The thoughts of a Deity cannot be so
extinguished, but t e will revive and rush upon a man, at least
under some sharp aflfhction. Amazing judgments will make them
question their own apprehensions. God sends some messengers to
keep alive the apprehension of him as a Judge, while men resolve
not to own or reverence him as a Governor. A man cannot but
keep a scent of what was born with him; as a vessel that hath been
seasoned first with a stroqgéjuice will preserve the scent of it, what-
soever liquors are afterwa ut into it.
4. What is it for which such men rack their wits, to form notions
that there is no God? ls it not that they would indulge some vicious
habit, which hath gained the possession of their soul, which they
know “cannot be favored b that holy God,” whose notion they
would raze out ‘?° Is it not ibr some- brutish affection, as degenera-
tive of human natiue, as derogatory to the lory of God; a lust as
.umnanly as sinful? The terrors of God are the effects of guilt; and
therefore men would wear out the apprehensions of a Deit , that
they might be brutish without control. They would fain believe
there were no God, that they might not be men, but beasts. How
great a folly is it to take so much pains in vain, for a slavery and
tormenfpto cast off that which they call a yoke, for' that which really
is one! _There is more pains and toughness of soul requisite to shake
oif the apprehensions of God, than to believe that he is, and cleave
constantly to him.`\ What a madness is it in any to take so much
gains to be 1ess`than a man, by razing out the apprehensions of
od, when, with less pains, he ma be more than an earthly man, by
cherishing the notions of God, and walking answerably thereunto?
° Psalm xeiv. 6, 7.

