'rm sxrsrimcn-or con. 88
5. How unreasonable is it for any man to hazard himself at this
rate in the denial. of a God! 'The atheist saith he knows not that
there E a God; but may he not reasonably think there may be one
for aught he knows? and if there be, what a desperate coniirsion will
he be in, when all his bravadoes shall prove falsel What can they
gain by such an opinion? A heedom, say they, from the burden-
some yboke of conscience, a liberty to do what they list, that doth
not su ject them to divine laws. It is a hard matter to persuade
my that they can gain this. They can gain but a sordid leasure,
unworthy the nature of man. But it were well that such would
argue thus with themselves: If there be a God; and I fear and obey
him, I gain a. happy eternity; but if there be no God, I lose nothin
but my sordid lusts, by iirm y believing there is one. If I be deceived
at last, and iind a God, can I think to be rewarded by him, for dis-
owning him? Do not I run a desperate hazard to lose his favor, his
kingdom, and endless felicity) for an endless torment? By confessing
a God I venture no loss; ut lg denying him, I run the most des-
perate hazard, if there be one. e is not a reasonable creature, that
will not put himself upon such a reasonable arising. What a dole-
ful meeting will there be between the God W o is denied, and the
atheist that denies him, who shall meet with reproaches on God’s
mend t/errors on his own! All that he gains is a liberty to defile
` lf here, and a certainty to be despised hereafter, if he be in an
error, as undoubtedly he is.
6. Can any such person say he hath done all that he can to
inform himself of the being of God, or of other things which he
denies? Or rather they would fain imagine there is none, that they
may sleep securely in their lusts, and be free (if they coulsiblg from
the thun er-claps of conscience. Can such say they have u their
utmost endeavors to instruct themselves in this, and can meet with no
satisfaction? Were it an abstruse truth it might not be wondered
at; but not to meet with satisfaction in this which everything minds
usof, and helpeth, is the iruit of an extreme negligence, stupidity
md a willingn  to be unsatisfied, and a judicial process of God
against them. It is strange any man should be so dark in that upon
which depends the conduct of his life, and the expectation of hap-
p& hereafter. I do not know what some of you may think, but
believe these things are not useless to be proposed for ourselves to
answer temptations; we know not what wicked temptation in a
debauched and skeptic age, meeting with a corrupt heart, may prompt
men to; and though there may not be any atheist here present, yet
llmow there is more than one, who have accidentally met with
such, who o nly denied a   and if the like occasion happen,
mae consirleerations may not unuseful to apply to their con-
rfienees. But I must confess, that since those that live in this sen~
timent, do not judge themselves worthy of their own care, they are
not worthy of the care of others; an a man must have a the
charity of the christian religion, which they despise, not to contemn
them, and leave them to their own folly. .As we are to pity mad-
men, who sink under an unavoidable istemper, we are as much to
lbominate them, who wilfully hug this prodigious frenzy.

