84 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
Use IH. If it be the atheist’s foll to den or doubt of the belpg
of God, it is our wisdom to bejirmiy settled’ in this truth, that G
is. We should never be without our arms in an age wherein atheism
appears barefliced without a disguise. You may meet with suggles-
tions to it, though the devil formerl never attempted to demo ‘sh
this notion in the world, but was willing to keep it up, so the wor-
ship due to God might run in his own channel, and was necessitated
to preserve it, without which he could not have erected that idolatry,
which was his great design in o position to God; yet since the foun-
dations of that are torn up, andp never like to be rebuilt, he may en-
deavor, as his l°ast refuge, to banish the notion of God out of the
world, that he may reign as absolutely without it, as he did before
by the mistakes about the divine nature. But we must not lay all upon
Satan; the corruption of our own hearts ministers matter to such
sparks. It is not said Satan hath suggested to the fool, but “the
fool hath said in his heart,” there is no God. But let them come
from what princi le soever, silence them quickly, give them their
dismiss; oppose the whole scheme of nature to ght against them,
as the stars did against Sisera.. Stir up sentiments of conscience to
oppose sentiments of corruption. Resolve sooner to believe that
yourselves are not, than that God is not; and if you suppose they
at any time come from Satan, object to him that you know he be~
lieves the contrary to what he suggests. Settle this principle firmly
in you, “let us behold Him that is invisible,” as Moses did ;f let us
have the sentiments following unon the notion of a God, to be re-
strained by a fear of him, excited b a love to him, not to violate
his laws and offend his goodness. he is not a God careless of our
actions, negligent to inflict punishment, and bestow rewards, “ he
forgets not the labor of our love,”s nor the integrity of our ways;
he were not a God, if he were not aa governor; _and punishments
_and rewards are as essential to government, as a foundation to a
building. His being and his government in rewarding, which im-
plies punishment, (for the neglects of him are linked together)h are
not to be separated in our thoughts of him.
1. Without this truth fixed in us, we can never give him the wor-
ship due to his name. When the knowledge of anything is iluctuaf
ting and uncertain, our actions about .it are careless. We regard not
that which we think doth not much concern us. If we do not firmly
believe there is a God, we shall pay him no stead worship; and if
we believe not the excellency of his nature, we siiall offer him but
a slight service! The Jews call the knowledge of the being of God
the foundation and pillar of wisdom! The whole frame of reli 'on
is dissolved without this apprehension, and totters if this appreiien-
sion be wavering, Religion in the heart is as water in a weather-
glass, which riseth or falls according to the strength or weakness of
t is beliefl How. can any man worship that which he believes not
to be, or doubts of ? Could any man omit the paying a homage to
one, whom he did believe to be an omnipotent., wise being, pos-
' Heb. xi. 27. I’ Heb. vi. 10. °‘ Heb. xi. 6.
' Mal. i. 18, 14. ll Maimon. Fimda. Legis. cap. 1.

