'nm Exrsrnucn or son. - 86
sexing (iniinitely above our conceptions) the perfections of all crea-
tures? He must eitherthink there is no such being, or that he isan easy,
drowsy, inobservant God., and not such an one asour natural notions
cfhim,iflistened to, aswellastheSeriptu.re,rc resenishimtobe.
2. Without   in this, we cannot order our lives. All
our baseness, stupi 'ty, dulness, wanderings, vanity, spring from a
wavering and unsettledness in this principle. This gives ground to
brutish leasures, not only to solicit, but conquer us. Abraham
expected) violence in an lace where God was not owned (Gen xx
11), “Surely the fear ofy(£>d is not in this place, and they will 'slay'
me for my wife’s sake.” The natural knowledge of God iirml im-
prmed, would choke that which~wou1d stifle our reason and ¢.£Me
our souls. The belief that God is, and what he is, would have a
mighty inliuence to persuade us to a real religion, and serious con-
sihidieilation, and casting about how to be like to him and united with
3. Without it we cannot have an comfort of our lives. Who
would willingly live in a. stormy world: void of a God ? If we waver
inthis princi e, to whom should we make our com laints in our
alllictions l’ %here should we meet with su ports? %ow could we
satisfy ourselves with the hopes of a fixturexha piness? There is a
sweetness in the meditation o his existence, and) that he is a Creator!
Thoughts of other things have a bitterness mixed with them: houses,
landzg children, now are, shortly they will not be; but God is, that
made the world: his faithfulness as he is a. Creator, is a. ground to
deposit our souls and concerns in our innocent sufferings." So far as
ve are weak in the acknowledgment of God, we deprive ourselves
of our content in the view of his infinite rfections.
4. Without the rooting of this princi li; we cannot have a firm
belief of Scripture. The Scripture will be a sli ht thing to one that
hath weak sentiments of God, The belief of a god must necessarily
precede the belief of any revelation; the latter cannot take place
without the former as a foundation. We must firmly believe the
being of a God, wherein our happiness doth consist, before we can
believe an means which conduct us to him. Moses begins with the
Author ofy creation, before he treats of the promise of redemption.
Paul preached God as a-Creator to a university, before he preached
Christ as Mediator." What influence can the testimony of God
have in his revelation u n one thatdoth not firmly assent to the
truth of his being? Allgvould be in vain that is so often repeated,
“Thus saith the Lord," if we do not believe there is a. Lord that
speaks it. There could be no awe from his sovereignty in his com-
mands, nor any comfortable taste of his goodness m his promises.
The more we are strengthened in this principle, the more credit we
shall be able to-give-to divine~ revelation, to rest in his promise, and
t:_ reverence his p1ecept;- the authority of all depends upon the being
the Bcvealer.
To this pm-pose, since-we have handled this discourse by natural
ltgumenm, , '
in-1m¢iv.u. 'lPef».iv.19. -ssuxvsiu.

