86 CHARNOCK ON THE A’.l".l‘RIBUTES.
1. Study God in the creatures as well as in the Scriptures. The
primary use of the creatures, is to acknowledge God in them; the
were made to be witnesses of himself in his goodness, and herald;
of his glory, which glory of God as Creator “shall endure forever”
(Psalm civ. 31): that whole psalm is a lecture of creation and provi-
dence. The world is a sacred temple; man is introduced to contem-
plate it, and behold with praise the glory of God in the pieces of
is art. As grace doth not destroy nature, so the book of redemp-
tion blots not out that of creation. Had he not shown himself in his
0
» creatures he could never have shown himself in his Christ; the
order of things required it. God must be read wherever he is legible ;
the creatures are one book, wherein he hath writ a part of the excel-
lenc of his name,° as many artists do in their works and watches
2 Godls glory, like the filings of gold, is   precious to be lost wher-
iever it drops: nothing so vile and base in the world, but carries in
it an instruction for man, and drives in further the notion of a God.
As he said of his cottage, Enter here, Sant kic etiam Dii, God dis-
dains not this place: so the least creature speaks to man, every shrub
in the field, every fly in the air, every limb in a body; Consider me,
God disdains not to ap ear in me; he hath discovere in me his being
and a part of his skill, as well as in the highest. The creatures
manifest the being of God and part of his perfections. We have
indeed a more excellent way, a revelation setting him forth in a more
excellent manner, a :firmer object of dependence, a brighter object
of love, raising our hearts from selficonlidence to a conndence in
hitm. Though the appearance of God in the one be clearer than in
the other, yet neither is to be neglected. The Scripture directs us to
nature to view God; it had been in vain else for the apostle to make
use of natural arguments. Nature is not contrary to Scripture, nor
Scripture to nature; unless we should think God contrary to himself
who is the Author of both.
2. View Godin your own experiences of him. There is a taste
and sight of his goodness, though no sivht of his essence.P By
the taste of his goodness you may know the reality of the fountain,
whence it springs and from whence it flows; this surplasseth the
greatest capacity of a mere natural understanding. xperience
of the sweetness of the ways of Christianity is a mighty preserva-
tive against atheism. Many a man knows not how to prove
honey to be sweet by his reason, but by his sense; and if all
the reason in the world be brought against it, he will not be
reasoned out of what he tastes. Have not many found the de-
lightful illapses of God into their souls, often sprinkled with his in-
ward blessin upon their seeking of him; had secret warnings in
their approa§es to him; and gentle rebukes in their consciences
upon their swervings from him? Have not many found sometimes an
invisible hand raising them up when they were dejected; some un-
expected providence stepping 1n for their relief ; and easily perceived
that it could not be a work of chance, nor many times the intention
of the instruments he hath used in it'? You have often found that
° Psalm   9. D Psalm xxxiv. 98.

