\
THE EXISTENCE OF con. 87
he is, b Ending that he is a rewarder, and can set to your seals that
he is what he hath declared himself to be in his word (Isa. xliii. I2):
“I have declared, and have saved; therefore you are my witnesses,
& the Lord, that I am God.” hThe secret touches of God upon this
and inward oonverses wit him, are a eater evidence of 1; e
existence of a supreme and infinitely good Bgiing, than all nature.
Use IV. Is it a. folly to deny or doubt of the being of God? It is
a folly also not to wtplrship God, virlhenlyve acknowledge his exgitfence;
itisou_rw1sd` om entowors` im. Asitisnotin`erent
whether we believe there is a Gold or no; so it is not indifferent
whether we_w1ll give honor to that God or no._ A Worship is his
right as he is the Author of our being, and fountain of our haptpiness.
By this only we acknowledge his Deity; though we may pro ess his
being, yet we deny that profession m neglects of Worship. To deny
him a worship is as great _a folly, as to deny his bemg._ He that re-
nounceth all omage to his Creator, envies him the being which he
cannot de rive him oil The natural inclination to worship is as uni-
versal as iihe notion of a God; idolatry else had never gained footing
in the world. The existence of God was never owned in any nation,
butaworshi of him was a inted. And man eo le who have
turned their hacks upon sonlii-:mother parts of the 'laid oi? nature, have
paid a continual homzige to some supericér and invisible being. The
ews 've a reason W man was create in the evenin of the Sab-
blixatlll, diecause he shoulld begin hiis being with the Wgrship of his
er. As soon as ever he foun himself to be a creature, his first
solemn act should be a particular respect to his Creator. “To fear
God and keep his commandment,” is the whole of man,q or is whole
(En ;' he is not a man but a beast, witliout observaiflce of God.
`vion is as re uisite as reason to com ete a man: e were not
neaddnable if he vciere not religious; bec pe by neglecting reli `on,
he neglects the chiefest dictate of r n. Either God framefl the
world with so much order, elegancy, a variety to no purpose, or
this was his end at least, that reasonable creatures should admire him
in it, and honor him for it. The notion of God was not stamped
upon men, the shadows of God did not appear in the creatures, to be
the subjwt of an idle contemplation, but the motive of a due hom e
to God. He created the wor d for his glory, a people for himszlf;
that he might have the honor of his works; that since We live and
Eove in him, ind bydhim, We shpulld live land moyie tip hing andhfor
`m. It was t e con emnationo t e eat enwor ,t atw en t e
knew there was a God, they did not give him the glor due to  
He that denies his being, is an atheist to his essence: he that denies
his worship, is an atheist to his honor. `
If it be a folly to deny the being of God, it will be our wisdom,
then, since we acknowledge his being, often to think of him.
Thoughts avi; the Erst issue of a creature as reasonable# He that
hath given the faculty whereby we are able to think, should be
principal object about which the power of it should be exercised
B 13 3 ju31;i¢-e to God, the author of our understandings, a. Justice to
| E,a|_,»j_i_ 18. ' Heh. ' Rom.i.2l. * Prov.iv.28.

