I
DISCOURSE II.
ON PRACTICAL ~ATHEISM.
hu: xiv. 1 -The fool bath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, tlq
have done abominable works, there is none that doeth good.
PRACTICAL atheism is natural to man inhis depraved state, and
ve%m’d'equent in the hearts and lives of men.
_fool hath said in his heart, Wzere is 'no God. He regards him as
little as if he had no being. He said in his heart, not with his ton e,
nor in his head: he never firml thought it, nor openly asserteglit.
Shame put a bar to the irst, and natural Nason to the second; eh
perhaps, he had sometimes some doubts whether there were a go
or no. He wished there were not any, and sometimes hoped there
were none at all. He could not raze out the notion of a Deity in his
mind, but he ne lected the fixing the sense of God in his heart, and
made it too much his business to deface and blot out those characters
of God ` is soul, which had been left under the ruins of original
nature. en may have atheistical hearts without atheistical heads.
Their ns may defend the notion of a Deitgewhile their hearts
are empty of affection to the Dei y. Job’s chil n may curse God
in their hearts, though not with t 1r lips."
There als no God. Most understand it of a denial of the providence
of God, as I have said in o ning the former doctrine. He denies
some essential attribute of ghd, or the exercise of that attribute in
the world! He that denies any essential attribute, may be said to
deny the being of God. Whosoever denies angels or men to have
reason and will, denies the human and angelical nature, because un~
demanding and will are essential to~both those natures; there could
neither be angel nor man without them. No nature can subsist with-
out the rfections essential to that nature, nor God be conceived of
withoutlheis. The apostle tells us (Eph.   12), that the Gentiles were
“ without God in the world.” ' So, in some sense, all unbelievers ma
beterrned atheists; 'for rejecting the Mediator appointed by G01
they reject that God who appointed him. But this is beyond the in-
tended scope, natural atheism being the only subject; yet this is de-
ducible from it. That the title of 610m doth not only belong to those
who deny the existence of God, or to those who contenm all sense
of a Deity, and would root the conscience and reverence of God out
' Job i. 5. ' So the Chaldee reads guubwu wb Non polastaa, dmying the
llthority of God in the world.

