1
90 emnnocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
of their souls; but it belongs also to those who give not that worship
to God which is due to him, who worship many gods, or who worship
fone God in a false and superstitious manner, when they have not
right conceptions of God, nor intend an adoration of him according
to the exec lency of his nat1u'e. All those that are unconcemed for
any particular religion fall under this character: though they own a.
God in general, yet are willing to acknowledge any God that shall be
coined b the powers under whom they live. he Gentiles were
without (lied in the world; without the true notion of God, not with-
out a God of their own framing. This general or practical atheism
is natural to men.
1. Not natural by created, but by corrupted nature. It is against
nature, as nature came out of the hand of God; but universally
natural, as nature hath been sophisticated and infected by the ser-
pent’s breath. Inconsideration of God, or misre resentation of his
natiue, are as agreeable to corrupt nature, as the dgsowning the being
of a God is contrary to common reason. God is not denied, naturzi,
sed vitz`z1s.y' “
2. It is universally natural: “The wicked are estranged from the
womb (Psalm lviii. 3). They go astray as soon as they bc born:
their poison is like the poison of a serpent.” The wicked, (and who
by his birth hath a better title?) they go astray from the dictates of
. God and the rule of their creation as soon as ever they be born.
Their poison is like the poison of a serpent, which is radically the
same in all of the same species. It is scminally and fundamentally
in all men, though there may be a stronger restraint by a divine hand
uplon some men than upon others. This principle runs through the
W ole stream of nat e. The natural bent of every man’s heart is
distant from God. When we attempt anything pleasin to God, it
is like the climbing up a hill, against nature; when anything is dis-
pleasing to him, it is ikc a current running down _the channel in its
natural course; when we attempt anything that is an acknowledg-
ment ofthe holiness of God, we are fain to rush, with arms in our
hands, through a. multitude of natural passions, and fight the way
through the o positions of our own sensitive appetite. How softly
do we naturalll sink down into that which sets us at a greater dis-
tance from God! There is no active, potent, efficacious sense of a
God by nature. “The heart of the sons of men is fully set in them
to do evil” (Eccl. viii. 11). The heart, in the singular number, as
if there were but one common heart beat in all mankind, and bent,
as with one pulse, with a joint consent and force to wickedness, with-
out a sense of the authority of God in the earth, as if one heart acted
every man in the world. The great a stle cites the text to verify
the charge he brought against a.ll manlgindf In his interpretation,
the Jews, who owned one God, and were dignified with special priv-
ileges, as well as the Gentiles that maintained many gods, are within
the compass of this character. The apostle leaves out the first part
of the text, “The fool hath said in his heart,” but takes in the latter
part, and the verses following. He charges all, because all, ever
man of them, wzm under sin-“ There is none that seeks God;” ami
I Augustin de Civit. Dei. ' Rom.   9-12.

