~ on Pmcrrcnn Afrnnrsu. 91
vs:19, he adds, “What the law saith, it speaks to those that are
under the law,” that none should imagine he included only the
Gentiles, and exempted the Jews from this description. The leprosy
of atheism had infected the Whole mass of human nature. No man,
among Jews or Gentiles, did naturally seek God; and, therefore, all
were void of an spark of the practical sense of the Deity. The
elects of this atheism are not in all externally of an equal size;
yetin the fundamentals and radicals of it, there is not a hair’s differ-
ence between the best and the worst men that ever traversed the
world. The distinction is laid either in common grace, bounding
and suppressing it; or in special grace, killing and crucifyin it. It
is in every one either triumphant or militant, reigning or dgeposed.
Noman is any more born with sensible acknowledgments of God,
than he is born with a clear knowledge of the nature of all the stars
in the heavens, or plants upon the earth. None seeks after Gods*
None seek God as his rule, as his end, as his happiness, which is a
debt the creature naturally owes to God. He desires no communion
with God; he places his happiness in anything inferior to God; he
Eggers everything before him, glorities everything above him'; he
no delight to know him; he regards not those paths which lead
to him; he loves his own 'filth better than God’s holiness; his actions
are tinctured and dyed with self, and are void of that respect which
is due from him to God.
The noblest faculty of man, his understanding, wherein the re-
maining lineaments of the image of God are visible; the highest
gestion of that faculty, which is wisdom, is, in the judgment of
Spirit of God, devilish, whilst it is earthly and sensual ;*' and the
wisdom of the best man is no better by nature; a legion of im ure
spirits possess it; devilish, as the devil, who, though he believe tliere
isa God, yet acts as if there were none, and wishes he had no supe-
riorto prescribe him a law, and inflict that punishment upon hun
yrhich his crimes have merited. Hence the lpoison of man by nature
IS said to be like the poison of a serpe§t,° a uding to that serpentine
temptation which first infected man ' d, and changed the nature of
man into the likeness of that of the devil; so that, notwithstanding
the harmony of the world, that presents men not only with the
notice of the being of a God, but darts into their minds some remarks
Of his power and eternity; yet the thoughts and reasonings of man
areso corrupt, as may well be called diabolical, and as oon1n°ary to
910 perfection of God, and the original law of their nature, as the
lctings of the devil are; for since every natural man is a child of the
devil, and is acted by the diabolical spirit, he must needs have that
llfiture which his father hath, and the infusion of that venom which
the spirit that acts him is possessed with, though the filll discove
of it may be restrained by various circumstances (Eph. ii. 2). ill;
conclude: though no man, or at least very few, arrive to a round
"ld positive conclusion in their hearts that there is no God, yet there
li no man that naturally hath in his heart any reverence of God.
In general, before ]f come to a particular proof; take some proposi-
ions, ~
'0oeoei. "Jnmesiii.l6. °Psalmlviii.£

