92 cniumocx ON 'mn srraranrss
Prop. I. Actions area greater disoove of a principle than words
The testimony of works is louder and dlyearer than that of words;
and the frame of men’s hearts must be measured rather b what they
do than by what they say. There may be a mighty distance be-
tween the tongue and the heart, but a course of actions is as little
guilty of lying as interest is, according to our common saying. All
outward im ieties are the branches o an atheism at the root of our
nature, as all pestilential sores are ex ressions of the contagion in
the blood; sin ' herefore frequently called imgodliness in our
English dialect. en’s practices are the best indexes of their prin
ciples: e current of a man’s life is the counterpart of the frame of
his hea . Who can den an error in the s rin or wheels, when
he perceives an error in the hand of the diali? WVho ca eny an
atheism in the heart, when so much is visible in the life? he taste
of the water discovers what mineral it is strained throu h. A prac~
tical denial of God is worse than a. verbal, because deedsiave usually
more of deliberation than words; words may be the fruit of a pas-
sion, but a set of evil actions are the fruit and evidence of a predomi-
nam; evil prima le in the he@ All slighting words of a prince do
not argue an habitual treason; but a succession of overt treasonable
attempts signify a settled treasonable disposition in the mind. Those,
therefore, are more deservedly termed atheists, who acknowledge a
God, and walk as if there were none, than those (if there can be any
such) that deny a God, and walk as if there were one. A sense of
God in the heart would burst out in the life; where-there is no rever-
ence of God in the life, it is easily concluded there is less in the
heart. What doth not infiuence a man when it hath the addition of
the eyes, and censures of outward spectators, and the care of a repu~
tation (so much the god of the wor d) to strengthen it and restrain
the action, must certainly have less power over the heart when it is
single, without any other concurrence. The ilames breaking out of
a house discover the fire to be much stronger and fiercer within.
The apostle judgeth those of the circumcision, who gave heed to
Jewish fables, to be denials of God, though he doth not tax them
with any notorious profaneness: (Tit. i. 16), “They profess that they
know God, but in works they deny him.” He gives them epithets
contrar to what they arrogated to themselves! The boasted
themseliifes to be holy; the apostle calls them abominable: they
bragged that they fulilled the law, and observed the traditions of
their fathers; the apostle calls them disobedient, or unpersuadable:
they boasted that they only had the rule of righteousness, and a
sound judgment conceming it; the apostle said they had a re
robate sense, and unfit for any good work; and judges against Sl
their vain-glorious brags, that they had not a reverence of God in
their hearts; there was more of the denial of God in their works than
there was acknowledgment of God in their words. Those that have
neither God in their thoughts, nor in their tongues, nor in their
works, cannot properly be said to acknowledge him. Where the
honor of God is not ractically owned in the lives of men, the being
of God is not sensigly acknowledged in the hearts of men. Tha
I uxyrm.

