on rxuwrrcsr. srnsrsx. 98
peiinciple must be of the same kind with the actions; if the actions
atheistical, the principle of them can be no better.
Prqz. H. A11 sin is founded in a secretathesm. Qlheism is the
spirit of ev   all the floods of impieties in the world break in
at the gate Silva secret, atheism, and though several sins ma disa e
with one another, yet, like Herod and Pilate against Clirist,1§;y
join hand in hand against the interest of God. Though lusts and
pleasures be diverse, yet they are all united in disobedience to him.°
All the wicked inclinations in the heart, and struggling motions,
secret nepinings, self-applauding conidences in our own wisdom,
strength, &c., envy, ambition, revenge, are s arks nom this latent
tire; the language of every one of these is, liwould be a Lord to
myself, and wou d not have a God superior to me. The variety of
sins against the iirst and second table, the neglects of God, and vio-
lences against man, are derived from this in the text; first, “The
fool hath said in his heart,” and then follows a legion of devils. As
all virtuous actions spring from an acknowledgment of God, so all
vicious actions rise from a lurking denial of him: all licentiousness
goes glib down where there is no sense of God. Abraham judged
himself not secure from murder, nor his wife from defilement in
Gerar, if there were no fear of God there! He that makes no con-
science of sin has no regard to the honor, and, consequently, none
tothe being of God. “By the fear of God men depart from evil”
(Pmv. xvi. 6); b the non-regarding of God men rush into evil.
Pharaoh oppressed Israel because he “knew not the Lord.” If he
did not deny the being of a Deity, yet he had such an imworthy
notion of God as was inconsistent with the nature of a Deity; he, a
poor creature, thought himself a. mate for the Creator. In sins of
omission we own not God, in neglecting to perform what`he en`oins°
U1 sins of commission we set up some lust in the place of God, and
pay to that the homage which is due to our Maker. In both we dis-
OWH him; in the one by not doin what he commands, in the other
by doiniwhat he forbids. We diny his sovereignty when we vio-
late his ws; we disgrace his holiness when we cast our tilth before
hw face; we disparage his wisdom when we set up another rule as
'he guide of our actions than that law he hath fixed; we slight his
Sqfliciency when we prefer a satisfaction in sin before a happiness in
111111 alone.; and his ess when we °udge it not strong enough
TQ attract us to hirn. very sin invades the nghts of God, and strips
lnra of one or other of ' perfection; It is such a vilifying of God
asif he were not God; as if he were not the su reme Creator and
lienefactor of the world; as if we had not our geing from him; as
lftheair we breathed in, the food we lived by, .were our own by
right of supremacy, not of donation. For a subject to slight his
Nvereign, is to slight his royalty; or a servant his master, is to
deny his su riority.
  Hli)eSin implies that God is unworthy of a being. Every
lm is a kind of cursing God in the heart;s an aim at the estruction
vfthe being of God; not actually, but virtually; not in the intention
°f Bvery sinner, but in the natmue of every sin. That affection which
°'I1t.iii.8. ‘Gen.xx.1l. ¢Jobi.5.

