94 cmnnocz ON 'rim Arramcrns.
excites a man to break His law, would excite him to annihilate his
being if it were in his power. A man in every sin aims to set up
his own will as his rule, and his own lory as the end of his actions
against the will and glory of God; ang could a sinner attain his end,
God would be destroyed. God cannot outlive his will and his glory;
God cannot have another rule but his own will, nor another end but
his own honor. Sin is called a turning the back upon God,h a kick-
ing against him,i as if he were a sli hter person than the meanest
beggar. What greater contem t canie shown to the meanest, vilest
person, than to turn the back, lift up the heel, and thrust away
with indignation? all which actions, though they signify that such a
one hath a being, yet they testify also that lie is unworthy of a being,
that he is an unuseful being in the world, and that it were well the
world were rid of him. All sin against knowledge is called a rgoach
of God! Repmach is a vilifying a man as unworthy to be a itted
into company. \Ve naturally judge God unfit to be conversed with.
God is the term turned from by a sinner; sin is the term turned to,
which implies a greater excellency in the nature of sin than in the
nature of God; and as we naturally judge it more worthy to have a
being in our affections, so consequently more worthy to have a being
in the world, than that infinite nature from whom we derive our
bein and our all, and upon whom, with a kind of disdain, we turn
our Ticks. Whosoever thinks the notion of a Deity unfit to be
cherished in his mind by warm meditation, im lies that he cares not
whether he hath a being in the world or no. glow though the light
of a Deity shines so clearly in man, and the stings of conscience are
so smart, that he cannot absolutely deny the being of a God, yet
most men endeavor to smother this knowledge, and make the notion
of a God a sapless and useless thing (Rom. i. 28): “They like not to
retain God in their knowledge.” It is said, “ Cain went out from the
Iéresence of the Lord” (Gen. iv. 16); that is, from the worship of God.
ur refusing or abhorring the presence of a man implies a careless-
ness whether he continue in the world or no; it is a using him as if
he had no being, or as if we were not concerned in it. Hence all
men in Adam, under the emblem of the prodigal, are said to go into
a far country; not in respect of place, because of God’s omnipresence,
but in res ect of acknowledgment and affection: they mind and love
anything lint God. And the descriptions of the nations of the world,
lying in the ruins of Adarn’s fall, and the dregs of that revolt, is that
t ey know not God. They forget God, as if there were no such being
above them; and, indeed, he that doth the works of the devil, owns
the devil to be more worthy of observance, and, consequently, of a
being, than God, whose nature he forgets, and whose presence he
abhors.
Prop. IV. Every sin in its own nature would render God a. foolish
and impure being. Man transgressors esteem their acts, which are
contrary to the law of God: both wise and ood: if so, the law against
which they are committed, must be both éoljsh and impure. What
a reflection is there, then, upon the Lawgiverl The moral law is
not properly a mere act of God’s will considered in itself; or a tyran-
\ Jer. xxxii. 38. r ' Dent. xxxii. 15. * Numb. xv. 80. Excl: xx. 27

