ON PRACTICAL Arimrsu. 95
ninal edict, like those of whom it may well be said, stat pro 'rations
vohmlas: but it commands those things which are good in their own
natuie, and prohibits those things which are in their own nature
evil; and therefore is an act of his wisdom and righteousness; the
result of his wise counsel, and an extract of his ure nature; as all
the laws of just lawgivers, are not only the acts ol? their will, but of a
will governed by reason and justice, and for the good of the uhlic,
whereof the are conservators. If the moral commands of God were
only acts oty his will, and had not an intrinsic necessity, reason and
goodnew, God might have commanded the quite contrary, and made
aoontrary law, whereby that which we now call vice, might have
been canonized for virtue: He might then have forbid any worship
of him, love to him, fear of his name: He might then have com-
manded murders, thefts, adulteries. In the first he would have
untied the link of duty Hom the creature, and dissolved the obliga-
tions of creatiues to him, which is impossible to be conceived; lor
from the relation of a creature to God, obligations to God, and duties
upon those obli tions, do necessarily result. It had been against
the rule of oodiiess and justice to ave commanded the creature
not to love liim, and fear and obe him: this had been a command
against ri hteousness, goodness, and’ intrinsic obligations to gratitude.
And should murder, adulteries, rapines have been commanded instead
of the contrary, God would have destroyed his own creation; he
would have acted against the rule of odness and order; he had
been an unjust tyrannical governor ofothe world: public society
would have been cracked in pieces, and the world become a sham-
bles, a brothel-house, a place below the common sentiments of a mere
man. All sin, therefore, being against the law of God, the wisdom
and holy rectitude of God’s nature is denied in every act of disobe-
dienw. And what is the consequence of this, but that God is both
foolish and unrighteous in commanding that, which was neither an
act of Wisdom, as a governor, nor an act of goodness, as a benefactor
to his creature? As was said before, resumptuous sins are called
reproaches of God (Numb. xv. 3(§: “}l‘he soul that doth aught Sre-
sumptuously reproacheth the Lor .” Reproaches of men are ei er
for natural, moral, or intellectual defects. All reproaches of God
must imply a charge, either of unrighteousness or ignorance: if of
unrighteousness, it is a denial of his holiness; if of ignorance, it is a
blemishing his wisdom.   God’s laws were not wise and holy, God
would not enjoin them: and if they are so, we deny infinite wisdom
and holiness in God by not complying with them. As when a man
believes not God when he promises, he makes him a liar (1 John v.
10); so he that obeys not a wise and holy God commanding, makes
him guilty either of folly or unrighteousness. Now, suppose you
lmew an absolute atheist who denied the being of a God, yet had a
life free from any notorious spot or deiilement; would you in reason
count him so bad as the other that owns a God in being, yet lays,
by his course of action, such a black imputation of folly and imdpu-
ntyupon the God he professeth to own-an imputation which ren ers
any man 3 most despicable creature?
Prqz. V. Sin in its own nature endeavors to render God the most

