98 crmaivocx ON ras Arraranrss.
miserable being. It is nothing but an op sition to the will of God:
the will of no creature is so much contradhited as the will of God is
b devils and men; and there is nothing under the heavens that the
adections of human nature stand more point blank against, than
against God. There is a slight of him in all the faculties of man;
our souls are as unwilling to know him, as our wills are averse to
follow him (Rom. viii. 7?: “ The carnal mind is enmity against God,
it is not subject to the aw of God, nor can be subject.” It is true,
God’s will cannot be hindered of its effect, for then God would not
be supremely blessed, but unhappy and miserable: all misery ariseth
irom a want of that which a nature would have, and ought to have:
besides, if anythin could frustrate God’s'will, it would be superior
to him: God would not be omnipotent, and so would lese the per-
fection of the Deity, and consequent] the Deity itself; for that which
did wholly defeat God’s will, would be more lpowerful than he. But
sin is a contradiction to the will of God’s reve ation, to the will of his
precept: and therein doth naturally tend to a superiority over God,
and would usurp his omnipotence, and deprive im of his blessed-
ness. For if God had not an infinite power to turn the designs of it
to his own glory, but the will of sin could prevail, God would be
totally de rived of his blessedness. Doth not sin endeavor to sub'ect
God to the extravagant and contrary wills of men, and make liim
more a slave than any creature can be? For the will of no creature,
not the meanest and most despicable creature, is so much crossed, as
the will of God is by sin     24): “Thou hast made me to
serve with th sins :" thou t endeavored to make a mere slave of
me by sin. gin endeavors to subject the blessed God to the humor
and lust of every person in the world. A
Prop. VI. Men sometimes in some circumstances do wish the not
bein of God. This some think to be the meaning of the text, “ The
fool hath said in his heart, There is no God,” that is, he wishes there
were no God. Many tamper with their own hearts to bring them to
a persuasion that there is no God: and when they cannot do that, they
conjure up wishes that there were none. Men naturally have some con-
science o sin, and some notices of justice (Rom. i. 32): “They know
the j udgment of God,” and they know the demerit of sin ; “ they know
the judgment of God, and that they which do such things are worthy
of death.” What is the co uent of this but fear of punishment; and
what is the issue of that fear, but a wishing the Jud e either unwilling
or unable to vindicate the honor of his violated law? When God is the
object of such awish, it is a virtual undeif 'ng of him: not to be able
to punish, is to be impotent; not to be wihing to unish, is to be un-
jurt: imperfections inconsistent with the Deity. god cannot be sup-
posed without an ininite power to act, and an infinite righteousness as
the rule of acting. Fear of God is natural to all men; not a fear of
offending him, but a fear of being punished by him: the wishing the
extinction of God has its degree in men, according to the degree of
their fears of his just vengeance: and though such a wish be not in its
meridian but in the damned in hell, yet it hath its starts and motions
in a.fi`righted and awakened consciences on the earth: under this rank
of wishers, that there were no God, or that God were destroyed., do fall.

