ON rnsmrcsn xrsnrsn. 97
1. Terrified consciences, that are llagor-mzlsaabib, see nothing but
matter of fear round about As they have lived without the boxmds
of the law, they are afraid to fall under the stroke of his justice:
fear wishes the. destruction of that which it a piehends hurtful: it
considers him as a God to whom vengeance helo , as the Judge
of all the earth) The less hopes such an one hall? of his pardon,
the more joy he would have to hear that his judge should be stripped
of his life: he would entertain with delight any reasons that might
support him in the conceit that there were no God:\i.n his present
state such a doctrine would be his security from an account: he
would as much rejoiceif there were no God to inflame an hell for
him, as any guilty malefactor would if there were no judge to order
a gibbet for him. Shame may bridle men’s words, but the heart will
be casting about for some arguments this way, to secure itself: such
as are at any time in ‘S€ira’s case, would be willing to cease to be
creatures, that God mig t cease to be Judge. “The fool hath said
in his heart, there .is no Elohim, no Judge;” fancying God without
any exercise of this judicial authority. And there is not any Wicked
man under anguish of s irit, but, were it within the reach .of his
power, would take away tlhe life of God, and rid himself of his fears
y destroying his Avenger.
2. Debauched persons are not without such wishes sometimes: an
obstinate servant wishes his master’s death, from whom he expects
correction for his debaucheries. As man stands in his corrupt nature,
zt is impossible but one time or other most debauched persons at
least have some kind of velleities, or imperfect wishes. It is. as nat-
ural to men to abhor those things which are unsuitable and trouble-
some, as it is to lease themselves in things agreeable to their minds
and humors; and since man is so deeply in love with sin, as to count
it the most estimable good, he cannot but wish the abolition of that
law which checks it, and, consequently, the chan e of the Lawgiver
which enacted it; and in wishing achange in the E01 nature of Godd
he wishes a destruction of God., who could not be god if he cease
to he immutably holy. They do as certainly wish that God had not
a holy will to command them, as despairing souls wish that God had
not a righteous will to punish them, and to wish conscience extinct
for the molestations they receive from it, is to wish the power con-
scknce represents out of the world also. Since the state of sinners
is a state of distance from God, and the language of sinners to God is,
“ Depart hom us ;”='\ they desire as little the continuance of his bein ,
as they desire the knowledge of his ways; the same reason whicii
moves them to desire God’s distance from them, would move them
to desire God’s not bein : since the eatest distance would be most
agreeable to them, the destruction 0?-God must be so too; because
there is no greater distance from us, than in not being. Men would
rather have God not to be, than themselves under control, that sen-
  might range at pleasure; he is like a “ heifer sliding from the
yighhe (Hosea iv. 16). The cursing of God in the heart, feared by
_ of his children, intimates a wishin God despoiled of his author-
l$y,thattheir pleasure might not be clamped by his law. Besides,
° Pmlm xciv. 12. ‘ Job ui. 14.
vor. 1.-7
ll

