98 cnlumocx ON ran ATTRIBUTES.
in there an natural man that sins against actuated knowledge, but
either thinks or wishes that God might not see him, that God might
not know his actions? And is not this to wish the destruction of
God, who could not be God unless he were immense and omniscient?
3. Under this rank fall those who perform external duties only
out of a rinciple of slavish fear. Many men perform those duties
that the law enjoins, with the same sentiments that slaves per-
form their drudgery; and are constrained in their duties by no
other considerations but those of the whip and the cudgeL Since,
therefore, they do it with reluctancy, and secretly murmur while
they seem to obe , they would be willing that both the command
were rec ed, andy the master that commands them were in another
world. T e spirit of adoption makes men act towards God as a.
father, a. spirit of bondage only eyes him as a 'udlgQ Those that
look upon their superiors as tyrannical, will not be uch concerned
in their welfare; and would be more glad to have their nails pared,
than be under perpetual fear of them. Many men regard not the
Infinite Goodness in the service of him, but consider him as cruel,
tyrannical, injurious to their liberty. Adam’slposterity are not free
from the sentiments of their common father, t' they are regenerate.
You know what conceit was the hammer whereby the hellish Jael
struck the nail into our first parents, which conve ed death, together
with the same imagination to all their sterity (yGen. iii. 5): “ God
knows that in the day you eat thereolixyour eyes shall be opened,
and you shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.” Alas, poor
souls! God knew what he did when he forbade ou that fruit; he was
jealous you should be too harppiy; it was cruelty in him to deprive
you of a food so pleasant an elicious. The apprehension of the
severity of God’s commands riseth up no less in esires that there
were no God over us, than Adam’s apprehension of envy in God for
the restraint of one tree, moved him to attempt to he equal with
God: fear is as powerful to produce the one in his posterity, as fide
was to produce the other in the common root. When we apprehend
a thing) hurtful to us, we desire so much evil to it, as may render it
inca a le of doing us the hurt we fear. As we wish the preservation
of wihat we love or hope for, so we are naturally a t to wish the not
being of that whence we fear some hurt or trouble. We must not
understand this as if any man did formally wish the destruction of
God, as God. God in himself is an infinite mirror of goodness and
ravishing loveliness; he is infinitely good, and so universally good,
and nothing but good; and is therefore so agreeable to a creature,
as a creature, that it is impossible that the creature, while it bears
itself to God as a creature, should be guilty of this, but thirst after
him and cherish every motion to him. As no man wishes the de-
struction of any creature, as a creature, but as it may conduce to
something which he counts may be beneficial to himself; so no man
doth, nor perhaps can wish the cessation of the being of God, as
God; for t en he must wish his own being to cease also; but as he
considers him clothed with some perfections, which he. apprehends
as injurious to him, as his holiness in forbidding sin, his justice in
punishing sin; and God being judged in those perfections, contrary

