. ON rmcncar. Arnxrsu. 99
to what the revolted creature thinks convenient and good for him-
self; he may wish God stripped of those perfections, that thereby he
may be free from all fear of trouble and grief from him in his fallen
state. In wishing God deprived of those, he wishes God deprived
of his being; because God cannot retain his deity without a love of
righteousness, and hatred of iniquity; and he could not testify his
love to the one, or his loathing of the other, without encouraging
goodness, and witnessing his anger against iniquity. Let us now
appeal to 0'l1l`S6lV8S, and examine our own consciences. Did we
never please ourselves sometimes in the thouglhts, how happv we
should be, how free in our vain pleasures, if t ere were no God?
Have we not desired to be our own lords, without control, subject
to no law but our own, and be guided by no will but that of the
iiesh? Did we never rage against God under his atiiicting hand?
Did we never wish God stripped of his holy will to command, and
his righteous will to punish? &c.
Thus much for the general. For the proof of this, man consid-
erations will bring in evidence; most may be reduced to these two
generals: Man would set himself up, first, as his own rule; secondly,
as his own end and happiness.
I. Man would set himself up as his own rule instead of God. This
will be evidenced in this method.
1. Man naturall ' disowns the rule God sets him. 2. He owns an
other rule rather than that of God’s prescribing. 3. These he doth
in order to the setting himself up as his own rule. 4. He makes
himself not only his own rule, but he would make himself the rule
of God, and give laws to his Creator.
First, Man naturally disowns the rule God sets him. It is all one
to deny his rqyalty, and to deny his being; When we disown his
authority, we isown his Godhead. It is t e right of God to be the
sovereign of his creatures, and it must be a very loose and trivial
assent that such men have to God’s superiority over them, (and con-
sequently to the excellency of his being, upon which that authority is
founded) who are scarce at ease in themselves, but when they are
invading his rights, breaking his bands, casting away his cords, and
contradicting his will. Every man naturally is a son of Belial, would
be without a yoke, and leap over God’s enc osures; and in breaking
out against his sovereignty, we disown his being, as God, for to be
God and sovereign are inseparable; he could not be God, if he were
not supreme; nor could he be a Creator without being a Lawgiver.
To be God and yet inferior to another, is a contradiction. To make
rational creatures without prescribing them a law, is to make them
without holiness, wisdom and goodness.
1. There is in man naturally an unwillingness to have any ac-
uaintance with the rule God sets him (Psalm xiv. 2): “None that
did understand and seek God.” The refusing instruction and casting
his Word behind the back is a art of atheism." We are heavy in
hearing the instructions either oi) law or gospel,° and slow in the ap-
rehension of what we hear. The peop e that God had hedged in
gum the wilderness of the world for lns own garden, were foolish
- Psalm L 17. ~ Heh v.1l,_.12:-> 2152

