100 cnrmaocx ON 'run mrrnrnurns.
and did not know God; were sottish and had no understanding of
him.P The law of God is accounted a strange thing;~i a thing of a
different climate, and a far country from the heart of man; where-
with the mind of man had no natural acquaintance, and had no de-
sire to have any; or they regarded it as a sordid thing: what God
accounts great and valuable, they account mean and despicable.
Men may show a civility to a stranger, but scarce contract an inti-
macy: there can be no amicable agreement between the holy will
of God and the heart of a depraved creature: one is holy, the other
unholy; one is universally good, the other stark naught. The purity
of the `vine rule renders it nauseous to the impurity of a, carnal
heart. ater and fire may as well friendly kiss each other and live
together `thout quarrelling and hissing, as e holy will of God
and the unregenerate heart of a fallen creature.
The nauseating a holy rule is an evidence of atheism in the
heart, as the nauseating wholesome food is of putreiied phle in
the stomach. It is found more or less in every Christian, in Si; re-
mainders, though not in a full empire. As there is a law in his mind
whereby he delights in the law of God, so there is a law in his mem-
bers whereby he wars against the law of God (Rom. vii. 22, 23, 25).
How predominant is this loathing of the law of God, when corrupt
nature is in its full strength, without an prinei le to control it!
There is in the mind of such a one a darkness, whereby it is igno-
rant of it, and in the will a depravedness, whereb it is repugnant
to it. If man were naturally willing and able to have an intimate
are uaintance with, and delight in the law of God, it had not been
suldh a signal favor for God to promise to “write the law in the
heart.” A man ma sooner engrave the chronicle of a whole nation,
or all the records ofy God in the Scripture upon the hardest marble
with his bare finger, than write one syllable of the law of God in a
spiritual manner upon his heart. For,
(1.) Men are ne hgent in using the means for the knowledge of God’s
will. All natural men are fools, who know not how to use the price
God puts into their hands ;' they put not a due estimate u n opportu-
nities and means of grace, and account that law folly whichiis the birth
of an infinite and holy wisdom. The knowledge of God which they
may glean from creatures, and is more pleasant to the natural gust
of men, is not improved to the glory of God, if we will believe the
indictment the apostle brings against the Gentiles! And most of
those that have dived into the depths of nature, have been more stu-
dious of the qualities of the creatures, than of the exeellency of the
nature, or the discovery of the mind of God in them; who regard
only the rising and motions of the star, but f ow not with the wise
men, its conduct to -the King of the Jews. ow often do we see
men filled with an eager thirst for all other kind of knowledge,
that cannot acquiesce in a twilight discovery, but are inquisitive into
the _causes and reasons of effects, yet are contented with a weak and
languishing knowled e of God and his law, and are easily tired with
the proposals of them He new that nauseates the means whereby
he may come to know and obey God, has no intention to make the
I Jerfiv:`2?. 5 \~Hosea. viii. 12. ' Prov. xvii. 16. ‘ Rom i. 21.

