on PRACTICAL srnnrsir. 101i
hw of God his rule. There is no man that intends seriously an end,
but he intends means in order to that end: as when a man intends
the preservation or recovery of his health, he will intend means in
order to those ends, otherwise he cannot be said to intend his health;
so he that is not diligent in using means to know the mind of God,
has no sound intention to make the will and law of God his rule. Is
not the inquiry after the will of God made a work by the bye, and fain
to lacquey after other concerns of an inferior nature, if it hath an
plqace at all in the soul? which is a despising the being of Gocli
e notion of the sovereignt of God bears the 'same date with the
notion of his Godhead; and hy the same wa that he reyeals him-
sell; he reveals his authority over us: whether it be by creatures
without, or conscience within. All authorit over rational creatures
consnts in commanding and_di1ecting: the rlht of rational creatures
in compliance with that authority consists in ogveying. Where there
is therefore a. careless neglect of those means which convey the
knowledge of God’s will and our duty, there is an utter disowning
of God as our Sovereign and our rule.
(2.) When any part of the mind and will of God breaks in upon
men, they endeavor to shake it off : as a man would a sergeant that
comes to arrest him, “they like not to retain God in their knowl-
edge" (Rom. i. 28%, “A natlual man receives not the things of the
Spirit of God ;” t at is, into his affection; he pusheth them back as
men do troublesome and importunate b gars: the have no kind
ness to bestow ulpon it: they thrust witheioth shoullders against the
tmthof God, w en it presseth in upon them; and dash as much
eoutem t upon it as t e Pharisees did upon the doctrine our Sa-
viour dl)rected against their covetousness. As men natiualtly delight
to be without God in the world, ey delight to be wi out any
Q%)l'lDg of God in their thoughts. Since the spiritual palate of man
is epraved, divine truth is unsav and ungrateful to us, till our
taste and relish is restored by grace: ence men damp and tiluench
the motions of the S irit to obedi ce and compliance with t e dic-
tates of God; strip tihem of their life and vigor, and kill them in
the womb. How unable are our memories to retain the substance
of spiritual truth; but like sand in a glass, put in at one ,Apart and
runs out at the other I Have .not many a secret wish, that e Scrip-
ture had never mentioned some truths, or that they were blotted out
Of the Bible, because they face their consciences, and discourage
those boiling lusts they would with eagerness and delight pursue?
Methinks that interruption John gives our Saviour when he was
upon the reproof of their pride, looks little better than a design to
divert him from a discourse so much against the grain, by telling
him a story of their hibitin one to cast out devils, because he
followed not thern.* gllilgdw lac? are men when they can raise a bat-
Utry against a command 0% God, and raise some smart objection
vhereb they may shelter themselves from the strictness of iw
(3.) %hen men cannot shake off the notices of the will an mind
of God, they have no pleasure in the consideration of them; which
wuldnot possibly be,.if there were a real and fixed design to own
'Marki.x.83.88.   ,. .;,1

