I
102 cnaimocx ON THE Arrnrnuras.
the mind and law of G‘od as our rule. Subjects or servants that love
to obey their prince and master, will delight to read and execute
their orders. The devils understand the law of God in their minds,
but they loathe the impressions of it upon their wills: those miserable
spirits are bound in chains of darkness, evil habits in their wills, that
they have not a thought of obeying that law they know. It was an
unclean beast under the law t at did not chew the cud: it is a cor-
rupt heart that doth not chew truth by meditation. A natural man
is said not to know God, or the things of God; he may know them
nationally, but he knows them not affectionately. A sensual soul
can have no delight in a s iritual law. To be sensual and not to
have the Spirit are inseparaible (Jude 19). Natural men may indeed
meditate upon the law and truth of God, but without delight in it;
if they take any pleasure in it, it is only as it is knowledge, not as it
is a rule; for we delight in nothing that we desire, but upon the
same account that we desire it. Natural men desire to know God
and some part of his will and law, not out of a sense of their practi-
cal excellency, but a natural thirst after knowledge: and if they
have a delight, it is in the act of knowing, not in the object known,
not in the uties that stream from that knowledge; they design the
furnishing their understandings, not the quickening their affections,
--like idle boys that strike fire, not to warm themselves by the
heat, but sport themselves with the s arks; whereas a gracious soul
accounts not only his meditation, or the operations of his soul about
God and his will to be sweet, but he hath a joy in the object of that
meditation.” Many ve the knowledge of God, who have no delight
in him or his will. Owls have eyes to erceive that there is a sun,
but by reason of the weakness of their sight have no pleasure to look
upon a beam of it: so neither can a man by nature love, or delight
in the will of God, because of his natural corruption. That law that
riscth up in men for conviction and instruction, ey keep down
under the power of corruption; making their souls not the sanctuary,
but prison of truth (Rom. i. 18). They will kee it down in their
hearts, if they cannot keep it out of their heads, and) will not endeavor
to know and taste the spirit of it.
(4.) There is, further, a risin and swelling of the heart against the
will of God. lst. Internal. gods law east against a. hard heart, is
like a ball thrown against a sto wall, by reason of the resistance
rebounding the iiirther from it; th meeting of a divine truth and
the heart of man, is like the meeting of two tides, the weaker swells
and foams) We have a natural antipathy against a divine rule, and
therefore when it is clapped close to our consciences, there is a snuil
fing at it, high reasonmgs a ainst it, corruption breaks out more
strongly: as water poured ongime sets it on Hre by an antzjzeristaszls,
and the more water is cast upon it, the more furiously it burns; or
as the sunbeams shining upon a dunghill make the steams the thicker,
and the stench the noisomer, neither being the ositive cause of the
smoke in the lime, or the stench in the dunghill: but by accident the
causes ofthe eruption: (Rom. vii. 8 , “But sin taking occasion by
the commandment, wrought in me manner of ooncupiscence, for
    Q: 'PsalmciV.34.

