ON rnacncn. Armazisn. 103
6
without the law sin was deagrl Sin was in aflanguishing posture,
as if it were dead, like a lazy garrison in a city, till, upon an alarm
&om the adversary, it takes arms, and revives its courage; all the
sin in the heart gathers together its force to maintain its standing,
like the vapors of the night, which unite themselves more closely to
resist the beams of the rising su_iQ Deep conviction often provokes
fierce opposition; sometimes disputes against a divine rule end in
blasphemiesi (Acts   45), “contradicting and biaspheming” are
%I5Pl8d together. Men naturally desire things that are forbidden,
an reject things commanded, from the corruption of nature, which
affects an unbounded liberty, and is im atient of returning under
that yoke it hath shaken off, and thereiore rageth against the bars
of the law, as the waves roar against the restraint of a bank. When
the understanding is dark, and the mind ignorant, sin lies as dead;
“A man scarce knows he hath such motions of concnpiscence in
him., he finds not the least breath of Wind, but a full calm in his
soul; but when he is awakened by the law, then the viciousness of
nature being sensible of an invasion of its empire, arms itself against
the divine law, and the more the command is urged, the more vigor-
ously it bends its strength, and more insolently lifts up itself against
it ;"= he perceives more and more atheistical lusts than before; “all
manner of concupiscence,” more leprous and contagious than before.
When there are any motions to turn to God, a reluctancy is present]
perceived; atheistical thoughts bluster in the mind like t e  
they know not whence they come, nor whither they go; so unapt
is the heart to any acknowledgment of God as his ruler, and any
re-union with him. Hence men are said to resist the Holy Ghost
(Acts vii. 51), to fall against it, as the word signifies, as a stone or
any ponderous body 'falls against that which lies in its way: they
would dash to pieces, or grind to powder that very motion which is
made for their instruction, and the Spirit too which makes it, and
that not from a it of passion, but an habitual re ugnance; “Ye
always resist,” &c. 2d. External. It is a fruit otp atheism in the
fourth v of this psalm, “Who eat up my peo le as they eat
bread.” How do the revelations of the mind of god meet with
opposition and the carnal world like dogs bark aglainst the shining
of the moon; so much men hate the light, that t ey spurn at the
lanthorns that bear it; and because they cannot endure the treasure,
otien Bing the earthen vessels ainst the ground wherein it is held.
Ifthe entrance of truth render atie arket worse for Diana’s shrines,
the whole city will be in an uproar.Y When Socrates u on natural
rinci les confuted the heathen i atry, and asserted tlieunity of
god, Sie whole cry of Athens, a learned university, is against him;
and because he opposed the public received religion, though with an
undonbted truth, he must end his life by violence. How hath every
corner of the world steamed with the blood of those that would
maintain the authority of God in the world! The devi1’s children
will follow the steps of their father, 'and endeavor to bruise the heel
pf divine truth, that would endeavor to break the head of con'upt
Ili.
l Then. Salmur. De Spiritu. Servitutha Thes. xix. 7 Acts xix. 24, 28, 29.
.;_

