104 énamroex ON 'run srrrurxurss.
(5.) Men often seem desirous to be acquainted with the will of
God, not out of any respect to his will, and to make it their rule, but
répion some other consi eration. Truth is scarce received as truth.
ere is more of hypocrisy than sincerit in the pale of the church,
and attendance on the mind of God. The outward dowr of a reli-
gious profession, makes it often more desirable than tile beauty.
udas was a follower of Christ for the bag, not out of any ailection
to the divine revelation. Men sometime pretend a desire to be
acquainted with the will of God, to satisfy their own passions, rather,
than to conform to God’s will; the religion of such is not the judg-
ment of the man, but the passion of the brute. Man entertain a
doctrine for the person’s sake, rather than a person for the doctrine’s
sake, and believe a thing because it comes from a man they esteem,
as if his lips were more canonical than Scripture. The'Apostle
implies in t e commendation he gives the Thessalonians; that some
receive the word for human interest, not as it is in truth the word.
and will of God to command and govern their consciences by its
sovereign authority; or else they have the “truth of God” (as St.
James speaks of the faith of Christ) “with respect of ,persons ;"“ and
receive it not for the sake of the fountain, but of t e channel; so
that man times the same truth delivered by another, is disregarded,
which, when dropping from the fancy and mouth of a man’s own
idol, is cried up as an oracle. This is to make not God, but man the
rule; for though we entertain that which materially is the truth of
God, yet not formally as his truth, but as conveyed by one we aifeet;
and t rat we receive,a truth and not an error, we owe the obligation
to the honesty of the instrument, and not to the strength and clear~
ness of our own judgment. Wrong considerations mav give admit-
tance to an unclean, as well as a clean beast into the ark of the soul.
That which is contrary to the mind of God, may be entertained, as
well as that which is agreeable. It is all one to such that have no
respect to God, what they have, as it is all one to a s onge to suck
up the foulest water or the sweetest wine, when eigher is applied
to it.
(6). Many that entertain the notions of the will and mind of God,
admit them with unsettled and wavering affections. There is a great
levity in the heart of man. The Jews that one day applaud our
Saviour with hosannahs as their king, vote his crueihxion the next,
and us 'm as a murderer. We begin in the S irit, and end in the
flesh. Our hearts, like lute-strings, are changed) with every change
of weat er, with ever appearance of a temptation ; scarce one rnotion
of God in a thousand, prevails with us for a settled abode. It is a
hard task to make a signature of those truths upon our affections,
which will with ease pass current with our understandings; our
affections will as soon lose them, as our understandings embrace them.)
The heart of man is “unstable as water.”b Some were willing to
rejoice in John’s light, which refiected a lustre on their minds; but
not in his heat, which would have conveyed a warmth to their hearts ;
and the light was I-pleasing to them but for a season,° while their
corruptions lay as ` they were dead, not when they were awakened.
' I These. ii. 13. ' James ii. 2. * Gen. xlix. 4. James i.8. ° John v. 88

