on rrucncn. nfnnrsn. 105
Truth may be admitted one and the next day rejected; as
Austin saith of a wick man, loves the truth shining, but he
hatesthe truthrepro ' . This is not tomake God, butourown
humor, our rule and measure.
(7.) Many desire an acquaintance with the law and truth of God
with a design to improve some lust by it; to tum the word of God
tobeapandertothe breach ofhislaw. Thisissofarhom making
God’s will our rule, that we make om' own vile a.i'l`ections the rule 0
his law. How many forced interpretations of Scripture have been
coined to give content to the lusts of men, and the 'vine rule forced
to bend., and be squared to men’s loose and carnal apprehensionsl
It k apart of the instability or falseness of the heart, to “wrest the
Scriptures to their own destruction ;"d which they could not do, if
the did not nrst wring them to countenance some detestable error
or filthy crime. In Paradise the first interpretation made of the first
law of God, was point blank against the mmd of the Lawgiver, and
venomous to the whole race of mankind. Paul himself feared that
somemightputhisdoctrineofgracetosoillause, astobeanaltar
and sanctuary to shelter their presumption (Rom. v' 15): “Shall
we then continue in sin, that grace may a.bound?’ isonous con-
muences are often drawn hom the sweetest truths as when God’s
patience is made a topic whence to argue against providence,° or
an encouragement to commit evil more greedily ; as though because
he had not presently a revenging hand, he had not an all-seeing eye:
or when the doctrine of _justification by faith is made use of to de-
press a holy life; or God s readiness to receive returning sinners, an
encouragement to defer re ntance till a death-bed. A liar will hunt
for shelter in the reward (ilfd gave the midwives that lied to Pharaoh
fin' the preservation of the males of Israel, and Rahab’s saving the
spies by false intelligence. God knows how to distin ° h between
grace and corruption, that may lie close together; or &1t§veen‘some-
thing of moral goodness and moral evil, which may be mixed; we
find their iidelit rewarded, which was a moral good; but not their
lie approved, which was a moral evil. Nor will Christ’s conversing
with sinners, be a plea for any to thrust themselves into evil company.
Christ conversed with sinners, as a hysician with diseased persons,
to cure them, not approve them; otgiers with profligate persons, to
receive infection from them, not to communicate holiness to them.
Satan’s children have studied their £ather’s art, who wanted not per-
verted Scri ture to second his temptations against our Saviour!
How often is carnal hearts turn divine revelation to carnal ends, as
the sea frmh water into salt! As men subject the precepts of God
to carnal interests, so they subject the truths of God to carnal fancies.
When men will allegorize the word, and make a humorous and crazy
fancy the inte reter of divine oracles, and not the Spirit speakin
in the word; lzhis is to enthrone our own imaginations as the rule 0?
God's law, and depose his law from being the rule of our reason; this
is to ritie truth of its true mind and intent. ’Tis more to rob a man
ufhis reason, the essential constitutive part of man, than of his estate °
thisis to refuse an intimateacquaintance with his will. We shall
* 2 Peter iii. 16. ° Psalm xciv. 1. ‘ Matt iv. 4-6.

