106 cmnsocx ON THE Arrnmurss.
never tell what is the matter of a precept, or the matter of a promise,
if we impose a sense upon it contrary to the plain meaning of it;
'thereby we shall make the 'law of God to have a distinct sense ac-
cording to the variety of men’s imafrinations, and so make every
man’s fancy a law to himself Now that this unwillingness to have
a spiritual acquaintance with divine truth is a disowning God as our
rule, and a setting up self in his stead, is evident; because this un-
willingness respects truth.
lst. As it is most spiritual and holy. A tleshly mind is most con-
trary to a spiritual law, and articularly as it is a searching and dis-
covering law, that would dethrone all other rules in the soul. As
men love to be without a holy God in the world, so they love to be
without a holy law, the transcript and image of God’s holiness in
their hearts; and without holy men, the lights kindled by the Father
of lights. As the holiness of God, so the holiness of the law most
offends a carnal heart (Isa. xxx. 11): “ Cause the Holy One of
Israel to cease from before us, rophesy to us right things.” They
could not endure God as a holiy one. Herein God places their re-
bellion, rejecting him as their rule gver. 9), “ Rebellious children, that
will not hear the law of the Lord.’ The more ure and precious
any discovery of God is, the more it is disrelisheci) by the world: as
spiritual sins are sweetest to a carnal heart, so spiritual truths are
most distasteful. The more of the brlghtness of t e sun any beam
conveys, the more offensive it is to a istemgered eye.
2d. As it doth most relate to, or lead to od. ‘he devil directs
his fiercest batteries against those doctrines in the word, and those
graces in the heart, which most exalt God, dehase man, and bring
men to the lowest subjection to their Creator; such is the doctrine
and grace of justifying faith. That men hate not knowledge as
knowledge, but as it directs them to choose the fear of the Lord, was
the determination of the Holy Ghost long ago (Prov. i. 29): “For
that they hated knowlcdffe, and did not choose the fear of the Lord."
Whatsoever respects God, clears up guilt, witnesses man’s revolt to
him, rouseth up conscience, and moves to a return to God, a man
naturally runs from, as Adam did from God, and seeks a shelter in
some weak bushes of e1'ror, rather than appear before it. Not that
men are unwilling to inquire into and contemplate some divine truths
which lie furthest from the heart, and concern not themselves im-
mediately with the rectifying the soul: they may view them with
such a pleasure as some might take in beholding the miracles of our
Saviour, who could not endure his searching doctrine. The light of
speculation may be pleasant, but the light of conviction is grievous,
t at which galls their consciences, and would affect them with a sense
of their duty to God. Is it not easy to perceive, that when a man
begins to be serious in the concerns of t e honor of God and the
duty of his soul, he feels a reluctancy within him, even against the
leas of conscience; which evidenceth that some unworth f principle
has get footing in the hearts of men, which fights against the declara-
tions of God without, and the impressions ofthe law of God within,
at the same time when a man’s own conscience takes part with it,
which is the substance of the apostle’s discourse, Rom. vii. 15, 16,

