ON riuorrcar. Arnmsu. 107
kc. Close discourses ofthe honor of God, and our duty to him, are
irksome when men are u on a merry pin : they are like a damp in
a mine, that takes away tlieir breath ; they shutlle them out as soon
as they can, and are as unwilling to retain the speech of them in
their mouths, as the knowledge of them in their hearts. Gracious
speeches, instead of bettering many men, distemper them, as some-
times sweet perfumes affect a weak head with aches.
3d. As it is most contrary to selfl Men are unwilling to acquaint
themselves with any truth that leads to God, because it leads from
selti Every part of the will of God is more or less displeasing, as it
sounds harsh against some carnal interest men would set above God,
or as a mate with him. Man cannot desire any intimacy with that
law which he regards as a bird of rey, to pick out his ' eye or
gnaw off his right hand, his lust Searer than himselfl fl e reason
we have such hard thoughts of God’s will is, because we ave such
high thoughts of ourselves. It is a hard matter to believe or will
that which hath no afiini ' with some principle in the understanding,
and no interest in our wiil and passions: our unwillingness to be ac-
aluiiinted with the will of God ariseth from the disiproportion between
t and our corrupt hearts; “ We are alienated 'om the life of God
in our minds” (Eph. iv. 18, 19% As we live not like God, so we
neither think or will as God; t ere is an anti athy in the heart of
man against that doctrine which teaches us to dieny ourselves and be
under the rule of another; but whatsoever favors the ambition, lusts,
and profits of men, is easy entertainable. Many are fond of those
sxziencos which ma enrich their understandings, and grate not u on
their sensual delights. Many have an admirable dexterity in tindiing
out philosophical reasons, mathematical demonstrations, or raisin
Observations upon the records of history; and spend much time and
many serious and affectionate thoughts in the study of them. In
those they have not immediately to do with God, their beloved
pleasures are not impaired; it is a satisfaction to self without the ex-
ercise of any hostility against it. But had those sciences been against
self, as much as the law and will of God, they had long since been
rooted out of the world. VVhy did the young man turn his back
u n the law of Christ? because of his worldly selfl Why did the
Phoarisees mock at the doctrine of our Saviour, and not at their own
traditions? because of covetous selfl Why did the Jews sli ht the
person of our Saviour and put him to death, after the reading so
many credentials of his being sent from heaven Y because of ambitious
self, that the Romans might not come and take away their kingdom.
Ifthe law of God were fitted to the humors of self, it would be readily
and cordially observed by all mea :(§§lf is the measure of a world
of seeming religious actions; while God seems to be the object, and
his law the motive, self is the rule and end (Zech. vii. 5) : “ Did you
fast unto me,” &c.§ '
2. As men discover their disowning the will of God as a rule by
unwillingness to be acquainted with it, so they discover it, by the
contem t of it after they cannot avoid the notions and some impres-
sions oi) it. The rule of God is burthensome to a sinner; he flies
hom it as from a 'frightful bugbear, and unpleasant yoke: sin against

