108 cmmnocx ON 'rms Arrnmtrrns.
the knowledge of the law istherefore called a going back from the
commandment of God's lips (Job xxiii. 123: “ A casting God’s word
behind them,”8 as a contemptible thing, tter to be trodden in the
dirt than lod ed in the heart; nay it is a casting it oif as an abomi-
nable thing, it so the word rm signiiies, Hos.   3. “Israel hath
cast off the thing that is good;” an utter refusal of God (Jer. xliv.
16): “ As for the word which thou hast spoken to us in the name
of the Lord, we will not hearken.” In the slight of his recepts his
essential perfections are slighted. In disowning his   as a rule,
We disown all those attributes which flow from his will, as goodness,
righteousness, and truth. As an act of the divine understanding is
supposed to precede the act of the divine will, -so we slight the infi~
nite reason of God. Every law, though it proceeds from the will of
the lawgiver, and doth formally consist in an act of the will, et it
doth re-suppose an act of the understanding. If the commandilnent
be hcl) , just, and good, as it is (Rom. vii. 12); if it be the image of
God’s holiness, a transcri t of his righteousness, and the eiilux of his
goodness j then in every breach of it, dirt is cast upon those attributes
which shine in it; and a slight of all the re ards he hath to his own
honor, and all the rovisions he makes for his creature. This athe-
ism, or contempt 0? God, is more taken notice of bi God than the
matter of the sin itself; as a respect to God in a Wea and imperfect
obedience is more than the matter of the obedience itself because it
is an acknowledgment of God; so a contempt of God in an act of dis-
obedience, is more than the matter of the disobedience. The creature
stands in such an act not only in a posture of distance from God, but
defiance of him; it was not the bare act of murder and adultery
which Nathan charged upon David, but the atheistical rinciple
which s irited those evil acts. The despising'the command)ment of
the Lord) was the venom of them.” It is possible to break a law with-
out contempt; but when men pretend to believe there is a God, and
that this is the law of God, it shows a contempt of his majestyzi
men naturally account God’s laws too strict, his yoke too heavy, and
his limits too strait; and he that liveth in a contempt of this law,
curseth God in his life. How can they believe there is a God, who
despise him as a ruler? How can they believe him to be a guide,
that disdain to follow him? To think we firmly believe a God with-
Cut living conformable to his law, is an idle and vain imagination.
The true and sensible notion a God cannot subsist with disorder
and an affected unrighteousne _ This contempt is seen,
1. In any presumptuous breach of any part of his law. Such sins
are frequently called in Scripture, rebellions, which are a denial of the
allegiance we owe to him. By a wilful refusal of his right in one
part, we root up the foundation of that rule he doth justly challenge
over us; his right is as extensive to command us in one thing, as in
another; and if it be disowned in one thin , it is virtuall disowned
in all, and the whole statute book of God is contemned’ (James ii.
10, 11: “Whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in
one point, is guilty of all.” A willing breaking one part, though
there be a willing observance of all the other points of it, is a breach
Q Psalml.17. * 2 Sam. xii. 9, 10. ‘ Claud.

