_ ON PRACFICAL amsrsu. 109
ofthe whole; because the authority of God, which gives sanction to
the whole, is slighted: the obedience to the rest is dissernbled: for
the love, which is the root of all obedience, is wanting; for “love is
the   the whole law.”k The rest are obeyed because they cross
not carnal esire so much as the other, and so it is an observance of
himself, not of God. Besides, the authority of God, which is not
prevalent to restrain us from the breach of ‘one oint, would be of as
'ttle force with us to restrain us from the breach of all the rest, did
theallurements of the flesh give us as strong a diversion from the one
as from the other; and though the command that is transgressed be
the least in the whole law, yet the authority which enjoins it is the
same with that which enacts the greatest: and it is not so much the
matter of the command, as the authority commanding which lays
the obligation.
2. In the natural averseness to the declarations of God’s will and
mind, which way soever they tend. Since man affected to be as
God, he desires to be boundless; he would not have fetters, thou h
they he golden ones, and conduce to his hap iness. Though the
law of God be a strength to them, yet they   not élsa. xxx. 15):
“ In returning shall be your strength, an you woul not.” They
would not have a bridle to restrain them from running into the it,
nor be hedged in b the law, though for their security; as if they
thought it too slavisll, and low-spirited a thing to be guided b the
will of another. Hence man is compared to a wild ass, that loves
to “snuff up the wind in the wilderness at her pleasure,” rather than
come under the guidance of God ;”1 from whatsoever uarter of the
heavens you pursue her she will run to the other. ‘lI‘he Israelites
“could not endure what was commanded,”"\ though in regard of the
moral part, agreeable to what the found written in their own nature,
and to the observance whereof they had the highest obligations of
my people under heaven, since God had, by many prodigies, deliv-
ered them from a cruel slavery, the memory of w ich prefaced the
Decalogue (Exod. xx. 2), “I am the Lord thy God, which have
brought thee out of the land of E pt, out of the house of bond e.”
They could not think of the rule glltheir duty, but they must rdgect
K; the grand incentive of it in their redemption from Egyptian
dom; yet this people were cross to God, which way soever he
moved. When they were in the brick kilns, they cried for deliver-
amz; when they had heavenly manna, they longed for their onions
and garlic. In Num. xiv. 3, they repent of their deliverance from
Egypt, and talk of returning again to seek the remedy of their evils
in the hands of their cruellest enemies, and would rather put them-
selves into the irons, whence God had delivered them, than believe
one word of the promise of God for giving them a fruitful land; but
when Moses tells them God’s order, that they should turn back by
the way ofthe Red Sea,” and that God had confirmed it by an oath,
that they should not see the land of Canaan,° they then run cross to
this command of God, and, instead of marching towards the Red
Sw, whigh the had wished for before, they will o up to Canaan,
gin gpiteof (god and his threatening: “WewE-Igo to the place
I   10_ I Jer. ii. 24. I' Heb. xii. 20. ' Ver. 25. ' Ver. 28

