110 CHARNOCK ON 'rnn A'r'rnrBurns.
which the Lord hath (pron1ised” (ver. 40), which Moses calls a trans-
gressing the comman ment ofthe Lord (ver. 41). The would pre-
sume to go up, notwithstanding Moses’ rohibition, and, are smitten
by the Amalekites. When God gives tiiem a precept, with a prom-
ise to go up to Canaan, they long for Egypt; when God commands
them to return to the Red Sea, which was nearer to the place they
longed for, they will shift sides, and go up to Canaan ,P and when
they found they were to traverse the solitudes of the desert, they
too pet against God, and, instead of thanking him for the late vic-
tory against the Canaanites, they reproach him for his conduct from
Egypt, and the manna wherewith he nourished them in the wilder-
ness. They would not go to Canaan, the way God had chosen, nor
preserve themselves by the means God had ordained. The would
not be at God’s disposal, but complain of the badness of the way,
and the lightness of manna, empty of any necessary juice to sustain
their nature. They murmuring y solicit the will and power of God
to change all that order which he had resolved in his counsel, and
take another, conformable to their vain foolish desires; and they
signided thereby that they would invade his conduct, and that he
should act according to their fancy, which the psalmist calls a
“tempting of God, and limiting the Holy One of Israel” (Psalm
lxxviii. 41). To what point soever the declarations of God stand, the
will of man turns the quite contra vvzzy Is not the carriage of this
nation the best then in the world? a iscovery of the depth of our
natural corruption, how cross man is to God? And that c arge God
brings against them, may be brought against all men by nature, that
they despise his judgments, and have a rooted abhorrency of his
statutes m their soul (Lev. xxvi. 43). No sooner had they recovered
from one rebellion, but they revolted to another; so diiiicult a thing
it is for man’s nature to be rendered capable of conforming to the
will of God. The carriage of this people is but a. copy of the nature
of mankind, and is “ written for otu' admonition’ (1 Cor. x. 11).
From this temper men are said to make “void the law of God;’<i
to make it of no obligation, an antiquated and moth-eaten record.
And the Pharisees, by setting u their traditions against the will of
God, are said to make his law 0? “none effect ;” to strip it of all its
authority, as the word signifies, (Matt. xv. 6,) fzwef-‘»fmvf.
3. We have the greatest slight of that wil of God which is most
for his honor and his greatest pleasure. It is the nature of man, ever
since Adam, to do so (Hos. vi. 6, 7). God desired mercv and not a
sacrifice; the knowledge of himself more than burnt oiiering; but
they, like men as Adam, have tranigressed the covenant, invade
God’s rights, and not let him be Lo of one tree. We are more
c1u'ious observers of the fringes of the law than of the greater con-
cerns of it. The Jews were diligent in sacrifices and oiferings, which
God did not urge upon them as princilpals, but as types of other
things; but negligent of the faith whic was to be established by
him. Holiness, mercy, piéy, which concerned the honor of God, as
governor of the world, an were imitations of the holiness and good-
new of God, they were strangers to. This is God’s complaint (Isa.
I Num ni. 4, 5, and Dail16,Serm. 1 Cor-.x. ser. 9, pp. 234, 235, 40. 1 Pu. cxix. iso.

