ON rrucrrcn. arnnrsn. 111
i. 11, 12, xvi. 17). We shall End our hearts most averse to the ob-
servation of those laws which are eternal, and essential to righteous-
ness; such that he could not but command, as he is a righteous
Governor; in the observation of which we come nearest to him, and
exprem his image more clearly; as those laws for an inward and
spiritual worship, a supreme affection to him. God, in regard of
his righteousness and holiness of his nature, and the excellency of
his being, could not command the contrary to these. But this part
of his will our hearts most swell against, our corruption doth most
snarl at; whereas those laws which are only positive, and have no
intrinsic righteousness in them, but deplend purely upon the will of
the Lawgiver, and may be changed at is pleasure (which the other,
that have an intrinsic righteousness in them, cannot), we better com-
ply with, than that part of his will that doth express more the right-
eousness of his nature;' such as the ceremonial part of worship,
and the ceremonial law amon the Jews. VVe are more willing to
observe order in some outward attendances and glavering devotions,
than discard affections to evil, crucify inward lusts and delight
ful thoughts. A “hanging down the head like a bullrush” is not
diiiicult; but the “breaking the heart,” like a potter’s vessel, to shreds
and dust (a sacrifice God delights in, whereby the excellency of God
and the vileness of the creature is owned), goes against the grain; to
cut off an outward branch is not so hard as to hack at the ro _
What God. most loathes, as most contrary to his will, we most lov :
no sin did God so severely hate, and no sin were the Jews more in-
clined unto, than that of idolatry. The heathen had not changed
their God, as the Jews had chan ed their glory (Jer. ii. 11); and all
men are naturally tainted with this sin, which is so contrary to the
holy and excellent nature of God. By how much the more defect
there is of purity in our respects to God, by so much the more re-
spect there is to some idol within or without us, to humor, custom,
and interest, &c. Never did any 'law of God meet with so much
opposition as Christianity, which was the design of God from the
first promise to the exhibiting the Redeemer, and irom thence to
the end of the world. All people drew swords at Hrst against it.
The Romans prepared yokes for their neighbors, but provided
temples for the idols those (people worshipped; but Christianity, the
choicest design and most elightful part of the will of God, never
met with a kind entertainment at iirst in any place; Rome, that
entertained all others, persecuted this with fire and sword, though
sealed by greater testimonies from heaven than their own records
could report in favor of their idols.
4. In running the greatest hazards, and exposing ourselves to more
trouble to cross the will of God, than is necessary to the observance
of it. It is a vain charge men bring a inst the divine prece ts,
that they are rigorous, severe, difficult; wghien, besides the contradic-
tion to our Saviour, who tells us his “yoke is easy, ” and his “ burthen
light,” they thwart their own calm reason and judgment Is there
not more difficulty to' be vicious, covetous, violent, cruel, than to be
virtuous, charitable, ldnd? Doth thewill of God enjoin that that is
' Psalm l, 6, 17, 19.

