112 cn.mNocx ON 'rnn Arrnmurns.
not conformable to ri ht reason, and secretl delightful in the exer-
cise and issue? And on the contrary, wliat doth Satan and the
world engage us in, that is not full of molestation and hazard Y Is
it a sweet and comely thing to combat continually against our own
consciences, and resist our own li ht, and commence a perpetual
quarrel against ourselves, as we ordgnarily do when we sin? Theéyg
in the Prophet (Micah vi. 6-8) would be at the expense of “ thousan
of rams, and ten thousand rivers of oil,” if they could compass them;
yea, would strip themselves of their natural affection to their first-born
to expiate the “sin of their soul,” rather than to “do justice, love
mercy, and walk humbly with God ;” things more conducible to the
honor of God, the welfare of the world, the security of their souls,
and of a more easy practice than the offerin they wished for. Do
not men then disown God when they will wi in ways hedged with
thorns, wherein they meet with the arrows of conscience, at every
turn, in their sides; and slide down to an everlasting punishment;
sink under an intolerable slavery, to contradict the will of God
when they will prefer a sensual satisfaction, with a combustion in
their consciences, violation of their reasons, gnawing cares and weary
travels before the honor of God, the di ity of their natures, the hap-
piness of peace and health, which mi % D6 preserved at a cheaper
rate, than they are at to destroy themg
5. In the unwillingness and awkwardness of the heart, when it is
to pay God a service. Men “do evil with both hands earnestly,”
but o good with one hand faintly; no life in the heart, nor an
diligence in the hand. What slight and loose thoughts of God doth
this unwillingness imply? It is a Wron to his providence, as though
we were not under his government, and liad no need of his assistance;
a wrong to his excellency, as though there were no amiableness in
him to make his service desirable; an injury to his goodness and
gpwer, as if he were not able or willing to reward the creatures’ obe-
`ence, or careless not to take notice of it; it is a sign we receive
little satisfaction in him, and that there is a great unsuitableness be-
tween him and us.
  There is a kind of constraint in the Hrst engagement. We are
rat er pressed to it than enter ourselves volunteers. What we call
service to God is done naturally much against our wills; it is not a
delightful food, but a bitter potion; we are rather haled, than run
to it. There is a contradiction of sin within us against our service,
as there was a contradiction of sinners without our Saviour against
his doing the will of God. Our hearts are unwieldy to any spiritual
service of God; we are fain to use a violence with them some-
times: Hezekiah, it is said, “ walked before the Lord, with a perfect
heart" (2 Kings xx. 9); he Walked, he made himself to walk: man
naturally cares not for a walk with God; -if he hath any communion
with him, it is with such a dulness and heaviness of spirit as if he
wished himself out of his company. Man’s nature, being contrary
to holiness, hath an aversion to an act of homage to God, because
holiness must at least be lpretendedl In every duty wherein we have
a communion with God, oliness is requisite: now as men are against
' Mich. vii. 3.

