on rnscrrcsn srnmsn. 118
the truth of holiness, because it is unsuitable to them, so they are not
friends to those duties which require it, and for some space divert
them from the thoughts of their beloved lusts. The word of the
Lord is a yoke, tplrayer a drudgery, obedience a strange element.
We are like fish, at “ drink up iniquity like water,”* and come not
to the bank without the force of an an le; no more willing to do
service for God, than a 'fish is of itselffo (Io service for man. It is a
constrained act to satisfy conscience, and such are servile, not son-
like performances, and spring from bondage more than a.&'ection; if
conscience, like a task-master, did not scourge them to duty, they
would never perform it. Let us appeal to ourselves, whet er we
are not more unwilling to secret, closet, hearty duty to God, than to
join with others in some external service; as if those inward services
re a going to the rack, and rather our ginance than privilege.
éwr much service hath God in the world m the same principle
that vagrants erform their task in Bridewe How glad are many
of evasions togxack them in the neglect of t commands of God, of
corrupt reasonings from the flesh to waylay an act of obedience, and
amu titude of excuses to blunt the edge of the preceptl The very
service of God shall be a retence to de rive hlm o the obedience
due to him. Saul will not Ee ruled by Godis will in the destroying the
cattle of the Amalekites, but by his own; and will impose upon the
will and wisdom of God, judging God mistaken in his command, and
that the cattle God thought fittest to be meat to the fowls, were
ilifrto be sacrifices on the altar." If we do perform any part of
his will, is it not for our own ends, to have some deliverance from
trouble? (Isa. xxvi. 16):' “In trouble have they visited thee; they
poured out a prayer when thy chastening was upon them." In
ailiction, he shall find them kneeling in homage and devotion; in
Pmsperity, he shall feel them kicking with contempt; they can pour
out a prayer in distress, and scarce drop one when t e are delivered.
(2.) There is a slightneas in our service of God. €V'e are loth to
me into his presence; and when we do come, we are loth to con-
tmue with him. We pay not an homage to him heartily, as to our
lord and Governor; we re rd him not as our Master, whose work
we ought to do, and whose Iibnor we ought to aim at. 1. In regard
of the matter of service. When the torn, the lame, and the sick is oil
fered to God ;1 so thin and lean a sacrifice, that you may have
lllmwn it to the ground with a puff; so some understand the mean-
"1g0f “ you have snuifed at it.” Men have naturally such slight
thoughts of the majesty and law of God, that they t ink any ser-
‘we is good enough for im, and conformable to his law. The dullest
§nd deadest time we think littest to pay God a service in; when sleep
Hytady to close our eyes, and we are unfit to serve ourselves, we
think it a fit time to open our hearts to God. How few morning
lfriiices hath Gvd from many persons and families! Men leap out
°{ their beds to their carnal pleasures or worldly employinents,
Without any thou ht of their Creator and Preserver, or any reflection
Upon his will as ie rule of our daily obedience. And as manlysre-
Uerve thc dregs of their lives, their o d age, to offer up their so to
'Job xv. 16. ‘ l Samxv. 8, 9, 15, 21. ' Mal.i.13, 14.
vol. 1.-3

