114 CHARNOCK ON 'rim Arrnmuras.
God, so they reserve the dregs of the day, their sleeping time, for
the offering up their service to him. How many grudge to spend
their best time in the sewing the will of God, and reserve for him
the sickly and rheumatic part of their lives; the remainder of that
which the devil and their own lusts have fed upon! Would not
any prince or overnor `udge a present half eaten pp by wild beasts,
or that which died in a ditch, a contempt of his rov ty A corrupt
thing is too base and vile for so great a King as God is, whose name
is dreadfuln' When by age men are weary of their own bodies,
they would present them to God; yet grudgingly, as if a tired body
were too good for him, snutling at the command for service. God
calls for our best, and we give him the worst. 2. In respect of
frame. We think any frame will serve God’s turn, which speaks
our slight of God as a Ruler. Man naturally performs duty with an
unholy heart, whereby it becomes an abomination to God (Prov.
xxviii. 9); “ He that turns away his ear from hearing the law, even
his prayers shall be an abomination to God.” The services which
he commands, he hates for their evil frames or corrupt ends (Amos
v. 21): “ I hate, I despise your feast-days, I will not smell in your
solemn assemblies.” God requires gracious services, and we give
him corrupt ones. We do not rouse up our hearts, as David called
upon his lute and harp to awake (Psalm lvii. 8). Our hearts are not
given to him; we ut him oif with bodily exercise. The heart is
but ice to what it dldth not affect, [L] There is not that natural vigor
in the observance of God, which we have in worldly business. _ \Vhen
we see a liveliness in men in other things, change the scene into a
motion towards God, how suddenly doth their vigor shrink and
their hearts freeze into sluggishnewl Man times we serve God as
lan uishingly as if we were afraid he should accept us, and pray as
coldl as if we were unwilling he should hear us, and take away that
lust hy which we are governed, and which conscience forces us to
praay against; as if we were afraid God should set up his own throne
an government in our hearts. How fleeting are we in divine med-
itation, how slee y in spiritual exercises! but in other exercises ac-
tive. The soul doth not awaken itself, and excite those animal and
vital spirits, which it will in bodily recreations and sports; much
less the powers of the soul: whereby it is evident we prefer the
latter before any service to God. Since there is a fulness of animal
spirits, why might they not be excited in holy duties as well as in
other operations, but that there is a reluctancy in the soul to exer-
cise its supremacy in this case, and erform an thing becoming a
creature in subjection to God as a Ruler? [2.] it is evident also in
the distractions we have in his service. How loth are we to serve
God fixedly one hour, nay a part of an hour, notwithstanding all
the thoixights of his majesty, and the eternity of glo set before our
eye! ~ hat man is there, since the fall of Adam, lthat served God
one hour without many wanderings and unsuitable thoughts unft for
that service? How ready are our hearts to start out and unite
themselves with any worldly objects that please usl [3.] Weariness
in it evidenceth it. To be weary of mu' dulness signifies a desire,
I Mal. i. 14. `

