on rnacrrcsx. arnnrsn. 115
to be weary of service signifies a discontent, to be ruled b God..
How tired are we in the performance of spiritual duties hen in
the vain triilings of time we have a perpetual motion! w will
many willingly revel whole nights, when their hearts will ag at the
threshold ofdahrslitgous service! like Dago1?1Glodse both our heads
tothm'k,an n toact,whenthearko o is resen Some
in the Prophet wished the new moon and the S&bbBthp0V6£8t they
might sell their corn, and be busied again in their worldly affairs!
A slight and weariness of the Sabbath, was a slight of the Lord of
the Sabbath, and of that freedom from the yoke and rule of sin,
which was signified by it. The design of the sacrifices in the new
moon was to signif a rest from the tyranny of sin, and a consecra-
tion to the iritualyservicc of God. Servants that are quickly weary
of thlefir wofk, are weary ogfhe authority of theia master that enjoin;
it. our hearts had a v ue for God, it woul be with us as wit
the needle to the loadstone; there would be upon his beck' a speedy
motion to him, and a iixed union with him. When the judgments
and affections of the saints shall be fully refined in glory, they shall
be willing to behold the face of God, and be under his government
to eternity, without any weariness: as the holy angels have owned
God as their sovereign ,pear these six thouslaid ylpgrs, lwitgoulg bmizing
w ofrunnin on isenands. But,a ,w'ete es cogs
usTl'ire1e will be §ome relics of tiilnwillingness to hear his injunctipns,
an weariness in erformin em; thou h men ma excuse t ose
things by extrinsiii causes, ict God’s ungrring judgirnent calls it a
wearinem of himself (Isaiah xliii. 22): “Thou hast not called iuppn
11143, O Jacob but thou hast been we of me, O Israel.” O t is
hetaxeth   own eo le, when he iiellsls them he would have the
liieasts of the iieldinphe dipgons and the owls?-lthe -Geintilelis, that éhe
ews counted no ttcr t an such-to honor im an ac now e ge
him their rule in a way of duty éver. 20, 21.)
6. This contempt is seen in a eserting the rule of God, when our
expectations are not answered upon our service. When services are
performed from carnal principles, they are soon cast off when carnal
ends meet not with desu°ed satisfaction. But when we own ourselves
G0d’s servants and God our Master, “our eyes will wait upon him till
he have mercy on us.”b It is one part of the duéy we owe to God
Il-Sour Master in heaven to continue in prayer ( ol iv. 1, 2); and
bythe same reason in all hother service, anfd to watch in thlel sam}e
with thanks 'ving: to watc for occasions o praise, to watc wit
cheerfulnessgifor further manifestations of his wil1,‘strength to per~
form it, success in the performance, that we may from all draw matter
of praise. As we are in a posture of obedience to his precepts, so
we should be in a posture of waiting for the blessing of it. But
IQ?-turally we reject t goduty we o%e to God,   he do rpot speed ge
wing' we ex ect m im. ow man o secret mutter e
same as they inpJob xxi. 15: “ What is the illmighty thht we should
H176 him, and what profit shall we have if we pray to him ?” They
Herve not God out of conscience to his commands, but for some
Wnalpmfit; and if ‘God make them to wait for it, they will not
‘1Sam.v.4. ‘Amos viii. 5. *Psalm cxxiii.2.

