¢
116 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
stay his leisure, but cease soliciting him any longer. -Two thing!
are expressed ;-that God was not worthy of any homage from
them,-“ What is the Almighty that we should serve him?” and
that the service of him would not bring them in a good revenue
or an advantage of that kind they eztlpccted. Interest drives man
men on to some kind of service, an when they do not nnd an ai
vance of that, they will acknowledge God no more; but like some
beggars, if you give them not upon their asking, and calling you good
master, from blessing tgpg wil t1u°n to cursing. How often do men
do that secretly, practi y, if not plainly, which J ob‘s wife advised
him to, curse God, and cast off that disguise of integrity they had
assumed! gépb ii. 9); “Dost thou still retain thy integrity? curse
God°” W t a stir, and pulling, and cpying is erel Cast off all
thoughts of religious service, and be at aggers drawing with that
God, who for all th service of him has made thee so wretched a
spectacle to men, andy a banquet for worms. 'l‘he like temper is de~
ci hered in the Jews (Mal.   14), “ It is in vain to serve God, and
what rent is it that we have kept his ordinances, that we have
walked mournfully before the Lord?" What profit is it that we
have regarded his statutes, and carried ourselves m a way of subjec-
tion to God, as our Sovereign, when we inherit nothing but sorrow,
and the idolatrous neighbors swim in all kind of pleasures? as if it
were the most miserable thin to acknowledge God? If men have
not the benefits they expect, they think God unrighteous in himself,
and injurious to them, in not conferring the favor they imagine they
have merited; and if they have not that recompense, they will deny
God that subjection they owe to him as creatures. Grace moves to
God upon a sense of duty ; corrupt nature u on a sense of interest.
Sincerit-y is encouraged by gracious returns, but is not melted away
by God’s delay or refusa.l. Corru t nature would have God at its
back, and steers a course of dut liiy hope of some carnal profit, not
by a sense of the sovereignty ofyGod.
7. This contempt is seen in breaking promises with God. “One
while the conscience of a man makes vows of new obedience, and
erhaps binds himself with many an oath; but the prove like
§onah’s gourd, withering the next day after their birth. This was
Pharaoh s temper: under a storm he would submit to God, and let
Israel go; but when the storm is ended, he will not be under God’s
control, and Israel’s slavery shall be increased. The fear of Divine
wrath makes many a sinner turn his back upon his sin, and the love
of his ruling lust makes him tum his back upon his true Lord. This
is from the revalency of sin, that disputes with God for the sover-
eignty.”° “Phen God hath sent a sharp disease, as a messenger to
bind men to their beds, and make an rnterruption of their sinful
pleasures, their mouths are full of promises of a new life, in hope to
escape the just vengeance of God: the sense of hell,_which strikes
strongly upon them, makes them full of such pretended resolutions
when they howl upon their beds. But if God be pleased in his
patience to give them a respite, to take off the chains wherewith he
seemed to be binding them for destruction, and recruit their strength,
' Reyn.

