ON rnscncnn xmnrsu. 117
they are more earnest in their sins than they were in their plromises
ofa reformation, as if they had got the mastery of God, and ad out-
witted him. How often doth God charge them of not returning to
him after a succession of judgmentsld So hard it is, not onlv to
§1ll:11re,, but to scourge men, to an acknowledgment of God as meir
er.
Consider then, are we not natlually inclined to disobey the known
will of God? Gan we say, Lord, for thy sake we refrain the thing
to which our hearts incline? Do we not allow ourselves to be licen-
nouz, earthly, vain, proud, revengeful, though we know it will offend
him` Have we not been peevishly cross to his declared will? run
counter to him and those aws which express most of the glory of
his holiness? Is not this to disown him as our rule? Did we never
wish there were no law to bind us, no recept to check our idols?
llrhat is this, but to wish that God would depose himself from being
our governor, and leave us to our own conduct? or else to wish that
he were as unholy as ourselves, as careless of his own laws as we are;
that is that he were no more a God than we, a God as sinful and
unrighteous as ourselves? He whose heart riseth against the law of
God w it, riseth against the Author of that law to undeify
him. e that casts contempt upon the dearest thing God hath in
the world, that which is the image of his holiness, the delight of his
soul; that which he hath given a special charge to maintain, and that
because it is holv, just, and ood, would not stick to rejoice at the
destruction of God himsel If God’s holiness and righteousness in
the beam be despised, m c more will an immense goodness and
holiness in the fountain be rejected: he that wisheth a beam far from
his eyes, because it offends and scorcheth him, can be no friend to
the sun, from whence that beam doth issue. How unworthy a crea-
ture is man, since he only, a rational creature, is the sole being that
withdraws itself from the rule of God in this earth! And how mis-
erable a creature is he also, since, departing from the order of God’s
goodness, he falls into the order of his justice; and while he refuseth
God to be the rule of his life, he cannot avoid him being the Judge
of his punishment! It is this is the original of all sin, and the foun-
tain of all our misery. This is the first thing man disowns, the rule
which God sets him.
Secondly, Man naturally owns any other rule rather than that of
God‘s prescribing. The law of God orders one thing, the heart of man
desires another. There is not the basest thing in t e world, but man
would sooner submit to be guided by it, rather than by the holiness
of God; and when anything that God commands crosses om* own
wills, we value it no more than we would the advice of a poor dis-
pirable beggar. How many are “lovers of pleasure, more than
overs of God l"° Tolmake something which contributes to the per-
fecuon of nature, as learning, wisdom, moral virtues, our rule, would
be more tolerable; but to pay that homage to a swinish pleasure,
which is the right of God, is an inexcusable contem t of him. The
greatest exeellency in the world is infinitely below (§od; much more
a bestial delight, which is both disgraceful and below the nature of
‘Amnsiva 6-11' °2'I`im.iii.4.

