118 crmnnocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
man. If we made the vilest creature on earth our idol, it is mom
excusable than to be the slave of a brutish pleasure. The viler the
thing is that doth possess the throne in our heart, the eater con-
tempt it is of him who can only claim a right to it, andr is worthy
of it. Sin is the ‘first object of man’s election, as soon as the faculty
whereby he chooses comes to exercise its power; and it is so dear to
man, that it is, in the estimate of our Saviour, counted as the right
hand, and the right eye, dear, precious, and useful members.
1. The rule of Satan is owned before the rule of God. The natural
ma.n would r er be under the guidance of Satan than the oke of
his Creator. dam chose him to be his governor in Paradise. No
sooner had Sa spoke of God in a wa of derision (Gen. " _ 1, 5),
‘° Yea, hath__God said,” but man follows liis counseland approves of
the scoff; and the greatest part of his posterity have not een wiser
by his fa ut wo rather ramble in the devil’s wilderness, than
to stay in God’s fold. It is by the sin of man that the devil is become
the god of the wor , as if men were the electors of him to the gov-
ermnent; si 's an election of him for a lord, and a putting the soul
under his golxrnment. Those that live according to the course of
the world, and are loth to displease it, are under the govemment
of the prince of it. The greatest part of the works done in the world
is to enlarge the kingdom of Satan. For how many ages were the
laws whereby the greatest part of the world was governed in the
affairs of religion, the fruits of his usurpation and policy? When
temples were erected to him, priests consecrated to is service; the
rites used in most of the worship of the world were either. of his own
coining, or the misappl ing the rites God had ordained to himself,
under the notion of a god: whence the apostle calls all idolatrous
feasts the table of devils, the cup of devils, sacrifice to devils, fellow-
ship with devils ;f devils being the real object of the ,pagan worship,
though not formally intended by the worshipper; t ou h in some
parts of the Indies, the direct and peculiar worship is ti the devil,
that he might not hurt them. And though the intention of others
was to offer to God, and not the devil, yet since the action was con-
trary to the will of God, he regards it as a sacrilice to devils. It was
not the intention of J eroboam to establish riests to the devil, when
he consecrated them to the service of his calves, for Jehu afterwards
calls them “the servants of the Lord” (2 Kings x. 23), “See if there
be here none of the servants of the Lord,” to distinguish them from
the servants of Baal; signifying that the true God was worshipped
under those images, and not Baal, nor any of the gods of the heaf
tliens; yet the Scripture couples the calves and devils together, and
ascribes the worship given to one to be given to the other: “He
ordained him priests for the high places, and for the devils, and for
the calves which he had made ;’ K so that they were sacrifices to
devils, notwithstanding the intention of Jeroboam and his subjects
that had set them u and worshipped them, because they were con-
trarv to the mind oi? God, and agreeable to the doctrine and mind
of Satan, though the object of their worship in their own intention
were not the devil, but some deilied man or some canonized saint.
‘1Cor.x.20, 21. I l’Jhr0n.xi.15.

