/
ON rmerrcsn Arnarsu. 119
The intention makes not a good action if so, when men kill the
servants of God with a design to o God service, as our Saviour
foretells,h the action would not be murder; yet who can call it other-
wise, since God is wronged in the persons of his servants? Since most
of the worship of the world, which men’s corru t natures incline them
to, is false and different from the revealed willpof God, it is a practi-
cal acknowledgment of the devil, as the governor, by acknowledging
and practising those doctrines, which have not the stamp of divine
revelation upon them, but were minted by Satan to depress the honor
of God in the world. It doth concern men, then, to take good heed,
that in their acts of worship they have a divine rule; otherwise it is
an owning the devil as the rule: for there is no medium; whatsoever
is not from God, is from Satan. But to bring this closer to us, and
consider that which is more common among us: men that are in a
natural condition, and wedded to their lusts, are under the aternal
government of Satan (John viii. 44): _“ Ye are of your fadher, the
evil, and the lusts of your father you will do.” If we divide sin
into spiritual and carnal, which division comprehends all, the devil's
authority is owned in both; in spiritual, we conform to his example,
because those he commits; in carnal, we obey his will, because those
he directs: he acts the one, and sets us a copy; he tempts to the
other, and gives us a kind of' a precept. Thus man by nature being
a willing servant of sin, is more desirous to be bound in the devil’s
iron chain, than in God’s silken cords. What greater atheism can
there be, than to use God as if he were inferior to the devil? to take
the part of his greatest enemy, who drew all others into the faction
zgainst him? to pleasure Satan by offending God, and gratify our
versary with the injury of our Creator? For a subject to take
arms against his prince with the deadliest enemy both himself and
praléce hath in the whole world, adds a greater blackness to the
re llion.
2. The more visible rule preferred before God in the world, is man.
The opinion of the world is more our rule than the precept of God;
and many men’s abstinence from sin is not from a sense of the Divine
will, no, nor from a princi le of reason, but from an affection to
some man on whom they clhpend, or fear of punishment from a su-
perior; the same rinciple with that in a ravenous beast, who ab-
stains from what he desires, for fear only of a stick or club. Men
will walk with the herds, go in fhshion with the most, speak and act
as the most do. While we conform to the world, we cannot perform
a reasonable service to God., nor prove, nor approve practically what
the good and acceptable will of God is; the apostle puts them in
opposition to one another! This appears,
1. In com lying more with the 'ctates of men, than the will of
God. Men dlraw encouragement from God’s forbearance to sin more
freely against him; but the fear of punishment for breaking the will
of man lays a restraint upon them. The fear of man is a more (pow-
erfill curb, to restrain men in their duty, than the fear of - Go ; so
we may please a friend, a master, a governor, we are regardless
whether we please God or no; men-p easers are more than God-
' John xvi. 2. ° Rom.   l, 2.

