120 cmumocz ON 'rim mrrnmurns.
pleasers; man is more advanced as a rule, than God, when we sub
mit to human orders, and stagger and dispute against divine. Would
not a prince think himself slighted in is authority, if any of his
servants should decline his commands, by the order of one of his
subjects? And will not God make the same account of us, when
We deny or delay our obedience, for fear of one of his creatures? In
the fear of man, we as little acknowledge God for our sovereign, as
we do for our comforter (Isa. li. 12, 13): “ I, even I, am he that com-
forteth you; who art thou, that thou shouldst be afraid of a man that
shall die,” &c. “ and forgettest the Lord thy maker?" &c. Vile put
a slight upon God, as if he were not able to bear us out in our duty
to him, and incapable .to balance the strength of an arm of flesh.
2. In observing that which is materially the will of God, not be~
cause it is his will,-but the injunctions of men. As the word of God
may be received, yet not as his word, so the will of God may be
performed, yet not as his will; it is materially done, but not for-
mally obeyed. An action, and obedience in t at action, are two
things; as when man commands the ceasing from all works of the
ordinary calling onthe Sabbath, it is the same that God enjoins: the
cessation, or attendance of his servants on the hearing of the word, are
conformable in the matter of it to the will of God; but it is only con-
formable in the obediential part of the acts to the will of man, when
it is done only with respect to a human recept. As God hath a
right to enact his laws without consulting   creature in the way of
his government, so man is bound to obey those laws, without con-
sulting whether they be agreeable to men’s laws or no. Ifwe act
the will of God because the will of our superiors concurs with it, we
obey not God in that, but man, a human will beinig the rule of our
obedience, and not the divine; this is to vilify Go , and make him
inferior to man in our esteem, and a valuing the rule of man above
that of our Creator. Since God is the highest perfection and infinitely
good, whatsoever rule he gives the creature must be good, else it
cannot proceed from God. A base thing cannot be the roduct of
an infinite excellency, and an unreasonable thing cannot Ee the pro-
duct of an infinite wisdom and goodness; therefore, as the respecting
God’s will before the will of man is excellent and worthy of a crea-
ture, and is an acknowledging the excellency, goodness, and wisdom
of God, so the eying the will of man before and above the will of
God, is on the contrary, a denial of all those in a lump, and a pre-
ferring the wisdom, goodness, an ower of man in his law, above all
those perfections of God in his. tsoever men do that looks like
moral virtue or abstinence from vices, not out of obedience to the rule
God hath set, but because of custom, necessity, example, or imitation
they may, in the doing of it, be rather said to be apes than Christi s.
3. In obeying the will of man when it is contrary to the will o
God; as the Israelites willingly “ walked after the commandment,”|=
not of God, but of Jeroboam in the case of the calves, and “made the
kings heart glad with their lies."| They cheered him with their
rea y obedience to his command for idolat (which was a lie in
itself; and a lie in them) against the commanldyment of God, and kbs
\‘Hos.v.1l. ‘Hos.vii.3.

