I
on rmcrrean Arnnrsu. 121
` of the rophets, rather than cheer the heart of God with
 w ig his worship instituted by him; nay, and when
Godoiered them to cure them their wound, their iniquity breaks
out afresh; they would neither have him as a. lord to rule them, nor
a physician to cm'e them (Hosea vii. 1); ‘f When   would have healed
Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was discovered.” The whole
Persian nation shrunk at once from al duty due by the light of nature
to the Deity, upon a decree that .“ neither God or man should be
petitioned to for thirty days, but only their king ;”m one only, Dan-
iel, excepted against it, who preferred his homage to God, above
obedience to his prince.. An adulterous generation is many times
made the rule of men’s professions, as is im lied in those words of
our Saviour (Mark viii. SEI): “ Whosoever shall be ashamed of me
and my words in this ad terous and sinful generation :” own him
among his disciples, and be ashamed of him among his enemies.
Thus men are said to deny God (Tit. i. 16), when they “attend to
Jewish fables and the precepts of men rather than the word of God ;”
when the decrees or canons of fallible men are valued at a higher
rate, and referred before the writings of the Holy Ghost by his
apostles. Xe man naturally disowns the rule God sets him, and owns
an other rule than that of God’s prescribing, so,
Tlnrdl' y, He doth this in order to the setting himself up as his own
rule; as though our own wills, and not God’s, were the true square
and measure of goodness. We make an idol of our own wills, and
as much as selfis exalted, God is deposed; the more we esteem our
own Willa the more we endeavor to annihilate the will of God; ac-
count nothing of him, the more we accoimt of ourselves, and endeavor
to render ourselves his superiors, by exalting our own wills. No
prince but would look lulpon his authority as invaded, his royalty
' , if a subject sho lve to be a law to himself, in oppo-
sition to his known will; e piety is to hate lves, deny om'-
selves, and cleave solel to t e service of G make ourselves
our own rule, and the object of our chiefest love, 18 atheism. If self
denial be the greatest part of godliness, the great letter in the alpha-
bet of religion; self-love isthe great letter in the alphabet of practical
atheism. Selfis the;]g'reat antichrist and anti-God in the world, that
lets up itself above that is called God; self-love is the ca tain of
that black band (2 Tim.   2): it sits in the temple of (iibd, and
would be adored as God. Selfllove begins; but denying the' power
modliness, which is the same with denying the ruling power of God,
the   It is so ilu' from bending to the righteous will of the
Creator, that it wouldhavethe eternal will of God stoop to the
humor and unrighteous will of a creatine; and this is the ground
of the contention between the flesh and spirit in the heart of a re-
newed man; iiesh wars for the godhead of self, and spirit fights for
the godhead of God; the one would settle the throne of the Creator,
and the other main ` a law of covetousness, ambition, envy, lust,
in the stead of God. The evidence of, this will appear in these
propositions:
1. This is natural to man as he is corrupted. What was the venom
l Dan. vi.
I

