122 cmmnocx os THE Arrmsnras.
of the sin of Adam, is naturally derived with his nature to all his
posterity. It was not the eating a forbidden a iple, or the pleasing
is palate that Adam aimed at, or was the chiefl object of his desire,
but to live inde ndently on his Creator, and be a God to himself
(Gen. iii. 5): “ Ypdu shall be as gods.” That which was the matter
of the devil’s temptation, was the incentive of man’s rebellion; a
likeness to God he as ired to in the judgment of God himself; an
infallible inteEeter of man’s thoughts; “ Behold, man is become as
one of us, to ow good and evil,” in regard of selflsufiicienc and
being a rule to himself The Jews understand the ambition ofy man
toreach no further than an equality with the angelical nature; but
Jehovah here imderstands it in another sense; God had ordered man
by this prohibition not to eat of the fruit of the “tree of knowledge
of good and evil;’5 not to attempt the knowledge of good and evil
of himself; but to wait upon the di tates of God; not to trust to his
own counsels, but to depend whdlly upon him for direction and
guidance. Certainly he that would not hold off his hand from so
small a thing as an apple, when he had his choice of the fruit of the
garden, would not have denied himself anything his appetite had
esired, when that principle had prevailed upon him; he would not
have stuck at a greater matter to leasure himself with the displeas-
ing of God, when for so small a tliing he would incur the anger of
his Creator. Thus would he deify his own understanding against
the wisdom of God, and his own a petite against the will of God.
This desire of equality with God, a l)earned man" thinks the apostle
intimates (Phil.   6): “Who being in the form of God, thought it
not robbery; to be equal with God; ’ the Son’s being in the form of
God, and t inking it no robbery to be equal with God, im lies that
the robbery of sacrilege committed by our first arents, fgr which
the Son of God humbled himself to the death of? the cross, was an
attempt to be equal with God, and depend no more upon God’s
directaons, but his own conduct; which could be no less than an
invasion of the throne of God, and endeavor to ut himself into a
posture to be his mate. Other sins, adultery, theta, &c. could not be
committed by him at that time, but he immediately puts forth his
hand to usurp the power of his Maker; this treason is the old Adam
in every man. The first Adam contradicted the will of God to set
up himself; the second Adam humbled himself; and did nothing but
by the command and will of his Father. This principle wherein the
venom of the old Adam lies, must be crucified to make way for the
throne of the humble and obedient principle of the new Adam, or
quiekening Spirit; indeed sin in its own nature is nothing else but
“a willing according to self; and contrary to the will of God;” lusts
are therefore called the wills of the flesh and of the mind.° As the
precepts of God are God’s will, so the violation of these precepts is
man’s will; and thus man usurps a godhead to himself, by giving
that honor to his own will which belongs to God, appropriating the
right of rule to himself, and denying it to his Creator. 'lhat servant
that acts according to his own will, with a neglect of his master’s,
refuseth the duty of a servant, and invades the right of his master.
° Dr. Jackson. ° Eph ii. 3.

