ON PRACTICAL xrnmsn. 123
This selfllove and desire of independency on God has been the root
of all sin in the world. The great controversy between God and
man hath been, whether he or they shall be God; whether his reason
or theirs, his will or theirs, shall be the guiding principle. As grace
E the union of the will of God and the will of the creature, so sin is
the opposition of the will of self to the will of God; “Leaning to
our own understanding,” is opposed as a natural evil to “trusting
in the Lord,”P a supernatural grace. Men commonly love what is
their own, their own inventions, their own fancies; therefore the
ways of a wicked man are called the “ ways of his own hes.rt,"'l and
the ways of a superstitious man his own devices (Jer. xviii. ll):
“We will walk after our own devices ;” we will be a law to ourselves;
and what the Psalmist saith of the tongue, Our tongues are our own,
who shall control us? is as truly the language of menls hearts, Our
wills are our own, who shall check us?
2. This is evident in the dissatisfaction of men with their own con-
sciences when they contradict the desires of self Conscience is
nothing but an actuated or reflex knowledge of a superior power and
an uitable law; a law impressed, and a wer above it impressin
it. e%onscience is not the lawgiver, but tliie) remembrancer to mind
us of that law of nat1u°e imprinted upon our souls, and actuate the
considerations of the duty and penalty, to apply the rule to our acts,
and pass judgment upon matter of fact : it is to give the charge, urge
the rule, enjoin the practice of those notions of right, as part of our duty
and obedience. But inan is as much displeased with the directions
of conscience, as he is out of love with the accusations and condem-
ning sentence of this ofiicer of God : we cannot naturally endure any
quick and lively practical thoughts of God and his will, and distaste
our own consciences for putting us in mind of it: they therefore
“like not to retain God in their knowledge,”' that is, God in their
own consciences; they would blow it out, as it is the candle of the
Lord in them to direct them, and their acknowledgments of God, to
secure themselves against the practice of its principles: they would
stop all the avenues to any beam of light, and would not suffer a
sparkle of divine knowledge to flutter in their minds, in order to set
up another directing rule suited to the fleshly appetite: and when
they cannot stop the light of it from glaring in their faces, they rebel
against it, and cannot endlue to abide in its mpathsé He speaks not
of those which had the written word, or spec' revelations; but only
a natural light or traditional, handed from Adam : hence are all the
endeavors to still it when it begins to speak, by some carnal pleasures,
as Saul’s evil spirit with a. fit of music; or bribe it with some fits of
a glavering devotion, when it holds the law of God in its command-
ing authority before the mind: they would wipe out all the impres-
sions of it when it resses the advancement o God above self, and
entertain it with noibetter compliment than Ahab did Elijah, “ Hast
thou found me, O my enemy ?’ If we are like to God in anythin
of our natural fabric, it is in the su erior and more spiritual part og
our souls. The resistance of that wlhich is most like to God, and in-
stead of God in us, is a. disowning of the Sovereign represented by
r Prov. iii. 5. W Ecol. xi. 9 ' Rumi 28. ' Job xxiv. 18
I

