124 cnrumocx ON THE Arrnrsurns.
that officer. He that would be without conscience, would be with-
out God, whose vicegerent it is, and make the sensitive part, which
conscience opposes, his lawgiver. Thus a man, out of respect to sin
ful self, uarrels with his natural self, and cannot comport himself'
in a frien(i‘lly behavior to his internal implanted rinci les: he hates
to come under the rebukes of them, as much as Idam hated to come
into the presence of God, after he turned traitor against him: the
bad entertainment God’s deputy hath in us, reflects upon that God
whose cause it pleads: it is upon no other account that men loathe
the upright language of their own reasons in those matters, and wish
the eternal silence of their own consciences, but as they maintain
the rights of God, and would hinder the idol of self from usurping
his godhead and prerogative. Though this power be part of a man’s
self; rooted in his nature, as essential to him and inseparable from
him as the best part of his being; yet he quarrels with it, as it is
God's deputy, and stickling for the honor of God in his soul, and
quarrelling with that sinfir self he would cherish above God. We
are not displeased with this faculty barely as it exerciseth a selflre-
flection ; but as it is God’s vicegerent, and bears the mark of his
authority in it. In some cases this selfireflecting act meets with
good entertainment, when it s not in contradiction to self; but
suitable to natural affections. As suppose a man hath in his passion
struck his child, and caused there y some great mischief to him, the
reflection of conscience will not be unwelcome to him; will work
some tenderness in him, because it takes the' part of self; and of
natural affection ; but in the more spiritual concerns of God it will
be rated as a busy-body.;
3. Many, if not mo tions, materially good in the world, are
done more because they are a cable to self, than as they are honor-
able to God. As the word ofgrérod may be heard not as his word,*
but as there may be (pleasing notions in it, or discourses against an
opinion or party we isaifect; so the will of God may be performed,
not as his will, but as it may gratify some selfish consideration, when
we will please God so far as it may not displease ourselves, and serve
him as our Master, so far as his comman may be a servant to our
humor; when we consider not who it is that commands, but how
short it comes of displeasing that sin which rules in our heart, ick
and choose what is least burdensome to the flesh, and distasteflg to
our lusts. He that doth the will of God, not out of conscience of'
that will, but because it is agreeable to himself; casts down the will
of God, and sets his own will in the place of it; takes the crown
from the head of God, and places it upon the head of self If things
are done, not because they are commanded by God, but desirable to
us, it is a disobedient obedience ; a conformity to God’s will in regard
of the matter, a conformity to our own will in regard of the motive;
either as the things done are agreeable to natural and moral self, or
sinful selfl
(1). As they are agreeable to natural or moral selfl When men
will practise some points of religion, and walk in the track of some
divine precepts; not because they are divine, but because they are
' 1 Thess. ii. 13.

