ON PRACTICAL Arrmsir. 125
agreeable to their humor or constitution of nature; from the sway
o a natural bravery, the bias of a secular interest, not from an in-
genuous sense of God’s authority, or a voluntary submission to his
will; as when a. man ill avoid excess in drinking, not because it is
dishonorable to God, hut as it is a blemish to his own re utation, or
an impair of the health of his body : doth this deserve tiie name of
an observance of the divine injunction, or rather an obedience to
ourselves ? Or when a man will be liberal in the distribution of his
charity, not with an eye to God’s precept, but in compliance with
his own natural compassion, or to pleasure the generosit of his
nature: the one is obedience to a man’s own preservation; the other
an obedience to the interest or impulse of a moral virtue. It is not
respect to the rule of God, but the authority of self, and, at the best,
is but the performance of the material part of the divine rule, with-
out any concurrence of a spiritual motive or a spiritual manner.
That only is a maintaining t e rights of God, when we pay an ob-
servance to his rule, without examining the agreeableness of it to our
secular interest, or consulting with the humor of flesh and blood;
when we will not decline his service, though we find it cross, and
hath no affinity with the pleasure of our own nature: such an obe-
dience as Abraham manifested in his readiness to sacrifice his son;
such an obedience as our Saviour demands in cutting off the right
hand. When we observe anything of divine order u on the account
of its suitableness to our natural sentiments, we shall readily divide
from him, when the interest of nature turns its point against the in-
terest of God’s honor; we shall fall oif from him according to the
change we ‘rind in our own humors. And can that be valued as a
setting up the rule of God, which must be deposed upon the mutable
interest of an inconstant mind? Esau had no regard to God in de'
laying the execution of his resolution to shorten his brother’s days,
though he was awed by the reverence of his father to delay it; he
considered, perhaps, how justl he might lie under the imputation
of hastening crazy lsaac’s death, by depriving him of a beloved son.
But had the old man’s head been laid, neither the contrary command
of God, nor the nearness of a fraternal relation, could have bound
his hands from the act, no more than the did his heart from the
resolution (Gen. xxvii. 41% “Esau hated Jyacob because of the bless-
mg wherewith his father lessed him; and Esau said in his heart,
'The days of mourning for my father are at hand, then will I slay
my brother.” So many children, that expect at the death of their
Pilftnf-S great inheritances of ortions, may be observant of them,
not in regard of the rule fixed by God, but to their own hopes, which
they would not frustrate by a disobligement. Whence is it that
mfilli’ men' abstain hom oss sins, but in love to their reputation?
Wlcliedness may be actegt privately, which a man’s own credit puts
abarto the open commission of The reserving his own esteem
mal' divert him from entering into a brotli)el house, to which he hath
sethis mind before, against a known precept of his Creator. As
Pharaoh parted with the Israelites, so do some men with their
blellllshing sins; not out of a sense of God’s rule, but the smart of
present judgments, or fear of a future wrath. Our security then,

