I
126 cnarnvocx ON THE Armrnurss.
and reputation, is set up in the lace of God. This also may be, and
is in renewed men, who have the law written in their hearts, that is,
an habitual disposition to an agreement with the law of God; when
what is done is with a respect to this habitual inclination, without
giilrg the divine precept, which is appointed to be their rule. This
is to set up a creature, as renew self is, instead of the Creator,
and that law of his in his word, which ought to be the rule of our
actions. Thus it is when men choose a moral life, not so much out
of respect to the law of nature, as it is the law of God, but as it is a.
law become one with their souls and constitutions. There is more
of self in this than consideration of God; for if it were the latter,
the revealed law of God would, upon the same reason, be received
as well as his natural law. From this principle of self, morality
comes by some to be advanced above evangelical dictates.
(2.) As they are agreeable to sinful self Not that the commands
of God are suited to bolster' up the corruptions of men, no more than
the law can be said to excite or revive sin:“ but it is like a. scandal
taken, not given; an occasion taken by the turnultuousness of our
depraved nature. The Pharisees were devout in long prayers, not
from a sense of duty, or a care of God’s honor; but to satisfy their
ambition, and rake together fuel for their covetousnessf that they
might have the greater esteem and richer offerings, to free by their
prayers the souls of deceased persons from purgatory; an opinion
that some think the Jewish s nagogue had then entertained; since
some of their doctors have deiieinded such a notion. Men may observe
some precepts of God to have a better convenienc to brea others.
Jehu was ordered to cut off the house of Ahali The service he
undertook was in itself acceptable, but corru t nature misacted that
which holiness and righteousness commanded. God appointed it to
magnify his justice, and check the idolatry that had been supported
by that family; Jehu acted it to satisfy his revenge and ambition:
he did it to fulfil his lust, not the will of God who enjoined him:
Jehu applauds it as zeal; and God abhors it as murder, and therefore
would avenge the blood of Jezreel on the house of Jehu (Hoe. i. 4).
Such kind of services are not paid to God for his own sake, but to
ourselves for our lusts’ sake.
4. This is evident in neglectin to take God’s direction upon
emergent occasions. This follows gre text, “None did seek God.”
When we consult not with him, but trust more to our own will and
counsel, we make ourselves our own governors and lords indepen-
dent upon him; as though we could be our own counsellors, and
manage our concerns without his leave and assistance; as though
our works were in our own hands, and not in the “hands of God; 1
that we can by our own strength and sagacity direct them to a suc~
oessful end without him. If we must “acquaint ourselves with God”
before we decree a. thing,= then to decree a thing without acquaint-
ing God with it, is to prefer our urblind wisdom before the infinite
wisdom of God; to resolve witlifout consulting God, is to depose
° Rom. vii. 8, 9.
I Matt. xxiii. 14: “ You devour widows' houses, and for n pretence make long prayer|."
I Gerrard in loc. ° Eccles, ix. 1. ' Job xxii. 28.

