ON PRACTICAL srrmisx. 127
God and deity self; our own wit and strength. We would rather,
like Lot, follow our own humor and stay in Sodom, than observe
the angel’s order to go out of it.
5. As we account the actions of others to be good or evil, as they
suit with, or spurn against our fancies and humors. Virtue is a
crime, and vice a virtue, as it is contrary or concurrent with our
humors. Little rewon have many men to blame the actions of
others, but because they are not agreeable to what they affect and
desire; we would have all men take directions from us, and move
according to our beck, hence that common speech in the world, Such
an one is an honest friend. Wh '? because he is of their humor,
and laekeys according to theirwills. Thus we make self the measure
and square of good and evil in the rest of mankind, and judge of it
by our own fancies, and not by the will of God, the proper rule of
judgment. Well then, let us consider: ls not this very common?
are we not naturally more willing to displease God than displease
ourselves, when it comes to a point that we must do one or other?
Is not our own counsel of more value with us, than conformity to
the will of the Creator? Do not our judgments often run counter
to the judgment of God? Have his laws a greater respect from us,
than our own humors? Do we scruple the staininglhis honor when
it comes in competition with our own? Are not t e lives of most
men a pleasing themselves, without a repentance that ever they dis-
pleased God? Is not this to undeify God, to deify ourselves, and
isown the ropriety he hath in us by the right of creation and bene-
iieence? We order our own ways by our own humors, as though
We were the authors of our own being, and had 'Ven ourselves life
and understanding. This is to destroy the orddr that God hath
placed between our wills and his own, and a lifting u of the foot
above the head; it is the deformity of the creature. The honor of
every rational creature consists in the service of the First Cause of
his being; as the welfare of every creature consists in the orders and
proportionable motion of its members, according to the law of its
creation. He that moves and acts aecordin to alaw of his own,
offers a. manifest wron to God, the highest wisdom and chiefest good;
disturbs the order of Exe world; nulls the design of the righteousness
and holiness of God. The law of God is the rule of that order he
would have observed in the world; he that makes another law his
rule, thrusts out the order of the Creator, and establishes the disorder
ofthe creature. But this will yet be more evident, in the fourth thing.
Fourthly, Man would make himself the rule of God, and give laws
to his Creator. We are willing God should be our benefimctor, but
not our ruler; we are content to admire his excellency and pay him
a worship, provided he will walk by our rule. “This commits a riot
upon his nature, To think him to be what we ourselves ‘would have
him, and wish him to bc’ (Psalm l. 21), we would amplify his mercy
and contract his justice; we would have his power enlarged to supply
our wants, and straitened when it goes about to revenge our crimes;
we would have him wise to defeat our enemies, but not to disappoint
our unworthy rojeets; we would have him all eye to regar our
indigenee, and blind not to discern our guilt; We would have him

