128 A cmmrocx on THE Arrnmurss. `
true to his promises, regardless of his precepts, and false to his
threatenings; we would new mint the nature of God according to
our models, and shape a God according to our own fancies, as he made
us at first according to his own image;” instead of obeying him, we
would have him obey us; instead of owning and admiring his per-
fections, we would have himstrip himself of his infinite excellency,
and clothe himself with a nature agreeable to our own. This is not
only to set up self as the law of God, but to make our own imagi~
nations the model of the nature of God.” Corrupted man takes a
pleasure to accuse or suspect the actions of God: we would not have
'm act conveniently to his nature; but act what doth gratify us,
and abstain from what distastes us. Man is never well but when he
is impeaching one or other perfection of God’s nature, and under-
mining his glolfiy, as if all his attributes must stand indicted at the bar
of our purblin reason: this weed shoots up in the exercise of grace.
Peter intended the refusal of our Saviours washing his feet, as an
act of humility, but Christ understands it to be a prescribin a law to
himself, a correcting his love (John xiii. 8, 9). 'lhis is evigenced.
1. In the strivings against his law. How many men imply by their
lives, that they would have God deposed from his government, and
some unrighteous being step into his throne; as if God had or should
change his laws of holiness into laws of licentiousness: as if he
should abrogate his old eternal prece ts, and enact contrary ones in
their stead '? What is the language of such practices, but that they
would be God's lawgivers and not his subjects? that he should deal
with them according to their own wills, and not accordin to his
righteousness? that they could make a more holy, wise, ang right-
eous law than the law of God? that their imaginations, and not
God’s righteousness, should be the rule of his doing ood to them?
(Jer. ix. 31): “They have forsaken m law, and walked after the
imaginations of their own heart.” VVlien an act is known to bc a
sin, and the law that forbids it acknowledged to be the law of God,
and after this we persist in that which is contrary to it, we tax his
wisdom as if he did not understand what was convenient for us;
“we would teach God knowledge ;”° it is an implicit wish that God
had laid aside the holiness of his nature, and framed a law to pleas-
ure our lusts. V\’hen God calls for wecpin and mourning, and
girding with sackcloth upon approaching judgments, then the cor-
rupt heart is for joy and gladness, eating of flesh and drinking of
wine, because to-morrow they should die ;'i as if God had mistaken
himself when he ordered them so much sorrow, when their lives
were so near an end; and had lost his understanding when he ordered
such a Cprecept: disobedience is therefore called contention (Rom. ii.
8): “ ontentious, and obey not the truth :” contention against God,
whose truth it is that they disobey; a dispute with him, which hath
more of wisdom in itself, and conveniency for them, his truth of their
imaginations. The more the love, goodness, and holiness of God
appears in any command, the more are we naturally averse from it,
ID east an imputation on him, as if he were foolish, unjust, cruel,
" Decay of Christian Piety, p. 169, somewhat changed.
° Job xxi. 22. ‘ Isa.xxii.12.18.

