ON PRACTICAL xrrmrsm. 129
and that we could have advised and directed him better. The good-
nw of God is eminent to us in ap ointing a day for his own worshi ,
wherein we' might converse with him, and he with us, and our so\d)s
be' refreshed with spiritual communications from him ; and we rather
use it for the ease of our bodies, than the advancement of our souls,
asif God were mistaken a injured his creature, when he urged
the spiritual part of duty. v ry disobedience to the law is an 1m-
Eliicit giving law to him, an a ch e against him that he might
ve rovided better for his creature. -
2. iii disap roving the methods o od’s government of the world.
If the counseh of Heaven roll not about according to their schemes,
instead of adoring the unsearchable depths of his judgments, they
call him to the bar, and accuse him, because they are not fitted to
their narrow vessels, as if a nut-shell could contain- an ocean. As
corrupt reason esteems the highest truths foolishness, so it counts
the most righteous ways unequal. Thus we commence a suit against
God, as though he had not acted righteousl and wisely, but must
give an account of his proceedings at our trihunal. This is to make
ourselves God’s superiors, and presume to instruct him better in the
government of the world; as t ough God hindered himself and the
world, in not makin us of his privycouncil, and not ordering his
affairs according to the contrivances of our dim understandings. Is
not this manifest in our immoderate complaints of God’s dealings
with his church, as though there were a co dness in God’s affections
to his church, and a glowing heat towards it only in us? Hence are
those importunate desires for things which are not established by
any promise, as though we would overrule and over persuade God
to comply with our humor. W'e have an ambition to be God’s tutors
and direct him in his counsels: “Who hath been his counsellor P”
saith the apostle! Who ought not tobe his counsellor? saith corrupt
nature. Men will find fault with God in what he suifers to be done
according to their own minds, when the feel the bitter fruit of it.
When Cain had killed his brother, and his conscience racked him,
how saucily and discontentedly doth he answer God! (Gen. iv. 9),
“Arn I my brother’s keeper?’ Since thou dost own thyself the
rector of the world, thou shouldst have preserved his person from
my fury; since thou dost accept his sacrifice before my offering,
preservation was due as well as acceptance. If this temper be found
on earth, no wonder it is lodged in hell. That deplorable person
under the sensible stroke of God’s sovereign justice, would oppose
his nay to God’s will (Luke xvi. 30): “And he said, Nay, father
Abraham, but if one went to them from the dead they] will repent.”
He would presume to prescribe more effectual means t an Moses and
the prophets, to inform men of the danger they incurred by their
sensualitv. David was displeased, it is said (2 Sam. vi. 8), when the
Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah, not with Uzzah, who was the
object of his ity, but with God, who was the infiicter of that pun-
ishment. When any of our friends have been struck with a rod,
against our sentiments 'and wishes, have not our hearts been apt to
swell in complaints against God, as though he disregarded the good-
° Rom. xi. 34.
vor.. 1.-9

