130 cnsmvocx ON rm: rwrnrsurns.
ness of such a perso did not see with our eyes, and measure him
by our esteem of   as if he should have asked :ur counsel, befbre
he had resolved, and managed himself according to our‘wil1, rather
than his own. If he be patient to the wicked, we are apt to tax his
holiness, and accuse him as an enemy to his own law. » If he inflict
severity' upon the righteous, we are ready to suspect his goodness,
and charge him to be an enemdy to his aiiectionate creature. If he
s are the Nimrods of the worl , we are ready to ask, “ Where is the
(i)od of judgment?”*` If he afllict the pillars of the earth, we are
ready to question, where is the God of mercy? It is impossible, since
the depraved nature of man, and the various interests and pas-
sions in the world, that infinite power and wisdom can act righteously
for the good of the universe, but he will shake some corrupt interest
or other upon the earth; so various are the inclinations of men, and
such a weather-cock judgment hath every man in himself, that the
divine method he applauds this day, u on a. change of his interest,
he will cavil at the next. It is im' ossihle for the just orders of God
to please the same person many weellss, scarce many minutes together.
God must cease to be God, or to be holy, if he should manage the
concerns of the world according to the fancies of men. How unrea-
sonable is it thus to impose laws upon God! Must God revoke his
own orders? overn according to t e dictates of his creature? Must
God, who hatgi only ower and wisdom to sway the sceptre, become
the obedient subject oi) every man’s humor, and manage eve 'thing to
serve the design of a simple creature? This is not to be Godjbut to set
the creature in his throne: though this be not formally done, yet that
it is interpretatively and practically done, is every hour’s experience.
3. In impatience in our particular concerns. It is ordin f with
man to charge God in his complaints in the time of Qction.
Therefore it is the commendation the Holy Ghost gives to J ob (ch.
i. 22), that in all this, that is, in those many waves that rolled over
him, he did not charge God foolishly, he never spake nor thought
anything unworthy o the majesty and righteousness of God; yet
afterwards we find him warping; e nicknames the aiiliction to be
God’s oppression of him, and no act of his goodness (x. 3): “Is it
good for thee, that thou shouldst oppress?" He seems to charge
od with injustice, for punishing him when he was not wicked, for
which he a peals to God: “Thou knowest that I am not wicked"
(ver. 7), and that God acted not like a Creator (ver. 8). If our pro-
jects are disappointed, what fretfulness -against God’s man ement
are our hearts racked with! How do uncomely passionsaiubble
upon us, interpretatively at least wishing that the arms of his wer
had been bound, and the eye of his onmiscience been hoodwinkedifthat
we might have been leR to o1u° own liberty and designs? and this oil
times when we have' more reason to bless him than repine at him.
The Israelites murmured more against God in the wilderness, with
marina in their mouths, than they did at Ph h in thc brick~kilns,
with their garlic and onions between their teeth. Though we repine at
instruments in our aiiiictions, yet God coun it a reflection upon
himselil The Israelites speaking against Moses, was, in God’s inter-
' Malii. 17.

