on PRAUFICAL ATHEISM. 181
sretation, a rebellion against himselfzs and rebellion is always a
esire of imposing laws and conditions upon those against whom the
rebellion is raised. The sottish dealings of the vine-dressers in
Franconia with the statue of St. Urban, the protector of the vines,
upon his own day, is an emblem of our dealing with God: if it be
a clear day and ortend a prosperous vintage, they honor the statue
and drink healths to it; if it be a rainy day, and presage a scanti~
ness, they daub it with dirt in indignation. ` We cast out our mire
and dirt against God when he acts cross te om' wishes, and Hatter
him when the wind of his providence joins itself to the tide of our
interest. Men set a high price upon themselves, and are angry God
values them not at the same rate, as if their judgment concerning
themselves were more piercing than his. This is to disannul God’s judg-
£lnt, and condemn him and count ourselves righteous, as ’tis J ob xl. 8.
's is the epidemical disease of human nature; they think they de-
serve earesses instead of rods, and upon crosses are more ready to tear
out the heart of God, than reflect humbly upon their own heart?
When we accuse God, we applaud ourselves, and make ourselves h
superiors, intimating that we have acted more righteously to him
than he to us, which is the highest manner of imposing laws u on
him; as that emperor accused the justice of God for snatchin iiim
out of the world too soon." What a high piece of ractical atheism
is this, todesire that infinite wisdom should be guided b om' folly,
and rse the righteousness of God rather than blemislii our own I
hstxbf silently submitting to his will and adoring his wisdom, we
declaim against him, as an unwise and uxgust governor: we would
invert his order, make him the steward an ourselves the proprietors
of what we are and have: we deny ourselves to be sinners, and our
mercies to be forfeited ‘
4. It is evidenced in envyin the gifts and prosperities of others.
Envy hath a deep tincture otgpraetical atheism, and is a cause of
atheism) We are unwilling to leave God to be the proprietor and
do what he will with his own, and as a Creator to do what he pleases
with his creatures. f We assume a liberty to direct God what portions,
when and how, he should bestow u on his creatures. We would not
let him choose his own favorites, and) pitch upon his own instruments
for his oly; as if God should have asked counsel of us how he
should ` se of his benefits. We are unwilling to leave to his
wisdom the management of his own judgments to the wicked, and
the dispensation of his own love to ourselves. This temper is
natural: it is as ancient as the first age of the world. Adam envied
God a felicity by himself, and would not spare a. tree that he had
reserved as a mark of his sovereignty. T e passion that God had
Even Cain to employ against his sin, he turns against his Creator.
e was wroth with God and with Abel ;|= but envy was at the root,
because his brother’s sacrifice was accepted and his refused. How
could he envy his accepted person, without reflecting upon the
I Numb. xvi. 41, compared with xvii. 10.
‘ Cfelurn sus icieus vitam &c. Vita Titi. c. 10
| Because wiched men llourish in the world. Solicitor nullos ease putare Deon.
' Gen. iv 6.

