132 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I‘TRIBU'1'ES.
Acceptor of his offering? Good men have not been free from it.
Job questions the goodness of God, that he should shine u n the
counsel of the wicked (Job X. 3). Jonah had too much oipgelf, in
fearing to be counted a false prophet, when he came with absolute
dcnunciations of wrath ;\ and when he could not bring a volley of
destroying judgments upon the Ninevites, he would shoot his fury
against his Master, envying those poor people the benefit, and God
the honor of his mere ; and this after he had been sent into the
whale’s belly to learn humiliation, which, though he exercised there,
yet those two great branches of selflpride and envy were not lopped
off from him in the belly of hell; and. God was fain to take pains
with him, and by a gourd scarce makes him ashamed of his peevish~
ness. Envy is not like to cease till all.atheism be cashiered, and that
is in heaven. This sin is an imitation of the devil, whose first sin
upon earth was envy, as his first sin in heaven was pride. It is a
wishing that to ourselves, which the devil asserted as his right, to
give the kingdoms of the world to whom he pleased rm it is an anger
with God, because he hath not given us a patent for government. It
utters the same language in disparagement of God, as Absalom did
in reiiection on his father: If I were king in Israel, justice should be
better managed; if I were Lord of the world, there should be more
wisdom to discern the merits of men, and more righteousness in dis-
trihutin to them their several portions. Thus we impose laws upon
God, and would have the righteousness of his will submit to the cor-
ruptions of ours, and have him lower himself to gratify our minds,
rat er than fulil his own. We charge the Author of those gifts
with injustice, that he hath not dealt equall ; or with ignorance,
that he hath mistook his mark. In the same breath that we censure
him by our eevishness, we would guide him by our wills. This is
an unreasonz5>le art of atheism. If all were in the same state and
condition, the ordldr of the world would be impaired. Is God bound
to have a care of thee, and neglect all the world besides? “Shall
the earth be forsaken for thee ?”” Jose h had reason to be displeased
with his brothers, if they had muttered) because he gave Benjamin a
double portion, and the rest a single. It was unfit that they, who
had deserved no gift at all, should prescribe him rules how to dis-
pense his own doles; much more unworthy it is to deal so with
God; yet this is too rife.
5. It is evidenced in corrupt matter or ends of prayer and praise.
When we are importunate for those things that we know not w tether
the righteousness, holiness, and wisdom of God can grant, because he
hath not discovered his will in any romise to bestow them, we would
then impose such conditions on Godi which he never obliged himself
to grant; when we ray for things not so much to glori%God, which
ought to be the end of prayer, as to gratify ourselves. e acknowl-
edge, indeed, by the act of petitioning, that there is a God; but we
would have him ungod himself to be at our beck, and debase himself
to serve our turns. lVhen we desire those things which are repug-
nant to those attributes whereby he doth manage the overnment of
the world; when, by some superficial services, we drink we have
\ Jonah iv. 2. ' Luke iv. 6. ' Job xviii. 4.

