on PRACTICAL xrnnisu. 138
gained indulgence to sins, which seems to be the thought of the
strumpet, in her paying her vows, to wallow more freely in the mire
of her sensual pleasures-“ I have eace-offerings with me; this day
I have paid my vows, I have mad; my eace with God, and have
entertainment for thee ;”° or when men d)esire God to bless them in
the commission of some sin, as when Balak and Balaam offered sacri-
iica, that they might prosper in the cursing of the Israelites (Numb.
uv. 1, &c.) So for a man to pray to God to save him, while he
neglects the means of salvation a pointed by God, or to renew him
when he slights the word, the onlly instrument to that se; this
is to impose laws upon God, contrary to the declared will and wisdom
of God, and to desire him to slight his own institutions. When we
come into the presence of God with lusts reeking in our hearts, and
leap from sin to duty, we would impose the law of our corruption
on the holiness of God. While we pray “the will of God may be
done,” selillove wishes its own will ma be performed, as though God
should serve our humors, when we will not obey his recepts. And
when we make vows under any ailliction, what is it oigen but a secret
enntrivance to bend and Hatter him to our conditions? We will
serve him if he will restore us; we think thereby to compound the
husin  with him, and bring him down to our terms.
6. It is evidenced in positive and bold interpretations of the judg-
ments of God in the world. To interpret the _judgments of God to
the disadvantage of the sufferer, unless it be an unusual judgment,
md have a. remarkable hand of God in it, and the sin be rendered
péagnly legible in the affliction, is a presumption of this nature.
en men will judge the Galileans, whose blood Pilate mingled
with the sacrinces, (glreater sinners than others, and themselves right-
eous, because no ops of it were dashed upon them; or when
Shimei, being of the house of Saul, shall judge accordin to his own
interest, and desires David’s flight upon Absalom’s.reb5lion to be a
ggliishment for invading the rights of Saul’s family, and de riving
` of the succession in the kingdom,P as if he had been oi) God’s
privy council, when he decreed such acts of justice in the world.
hns we would fasten our own wills as a law or motive upon God,
md interpret his acts according to the motions of selil Is it not too
Ordinary, when God sends an aiiiiction upon those that bear ill-will
To us, to judge it to be a righting of our cause, to be a fruit of God’s
concern for us in revenging our wrongs, as if we “had heard the
secrets of God,” or, as Eliphaz saith, “had tu_rned over the records
of heaven Y” (Job xv. 8.) This is a judgment accordin to seliilove,
not a divine rule; and imposeth laws upon heaven, implying a secret
vrkh that God would take care only of them, make our concerns his
own, not in ways of kindness and justice, but according to our fan-
cies; and this is common in the profane world, in those curses they
no readily spit out upon any aifront, as if God were bound to draw
his arrows and shoot them into the heart of all their offenders at
their beck and pleasure.
7. It is evidenced, in mixin rules for the worship of God with
those which have been ordereg by   Since men are most prone
'Pr0v. vii. 14. P2Sam.xvi.5. °

