1
134 csamrociz ON rim Arrnmurss.
to live by sense, it is no wonder that a sensible worship, which affects
their outward sense with some kind of amazement, is dear to them,
and spiritual worship most loathsome. Pompous rites have been the
great engine wherewith the devil hath deceived the souls of men,
and wrought them to a nauseating the simplicity of divine worship,
as unworthy the majesty and excellency of Gods Thus the Jews
would not understand t e glory of the second temple in the presence
of the Messiah, because it had not the pompous grandeur of that of
Solomon’s erecting. Hence in all ages men have been forward to
disiigure God’s models, and dress up a brat of their own; as though
God had been defective in providing for his own honor in his insti-
tutions, without the assistance of his creature. 'l`his hath alwa s
been in the world ; the old world had their imaginations, and the
new world hath continued them. The Israelites in the midst of
miracles, and under the memory of a famous deliverance, would
erect a calfl The Pharisees, that sate in Moses’ chair, would coin
new traditions, and enjoin them to be as current as the law of God!
Papists will be blending the christian appointments with pagan cere-
monies, to please the carnal fancies of t e common eople. “ Altars
have been multiplied” under the knowledge of the law of God! In-
terest is made the balance of the conveniency of God’s injunctions.
J eroboam 'fitted a worship to *politic ends, and posted up calves to
prevent his subjects revoltin om his sceptre, which might be oc-
casioned by their resort to .§erusalem, and converse with the body
of the people from whom the were separated! Men will be puttin
in their own dictates with G}od’s laws, and are unwilling he should
be the sole Governor of the world without their counsel; they will
not suffer him to be Lord of that which is purely and solely his con-
cern. How often hath the practice of the primitive church, the cus-
tom wherein we are bred, the sentiments of our ancestors, been owned
as a more authentic rule in matters of worship, than the mind of
God delivered in his Word! It is natural by creation to worship
God; and it is as natural by corruption for man to worshi him in a
human way, and not in a divine; is not this to impose }laws upon
God, to esteem ourselves wiser than he? to think him negligent of
his own service, and that our feeble brains can find out ways to ac-
commodate his honor, better than himself hath done? Thus do men
for the most part equal their own imaginations to God’s oracles: as
Solomon built a high place to Moloch and Chemoch, upon the Mount
of Olives, to face on the east art Jerusalem and the temple ;“ this
isfnlot only to impose laws on god, but also to make self the standard
0 t em.
8. It is evidenced, in suiting interpretations of Scripture to their
own minds and humors. Like the Lacedsemonians, that dressed the
images of their gods according to the fashion of their own country,
we would wring Scripture to serve our own designs, and judge the
law of God by the law of sin, and make the serpentine seed in us to
be the interpreter of divine oracles: this is like Belshazzar to drink
healths out of the sacred vessels. As God is the author of his law
1 2 Cor. xi. 8. ' Mutt. xiii, 6. ' Hos. viii. 12.
*lK.ingaxii.27. ‘1Kingsxi."l.

