ON PRACTICAL Arsmsu. 135
md word, so he is the best interpreter of it; the Scripture having an
impress of divine wisdom, holiness, and goodness, must be regarded
according to that im ress, with a. submission and meekness of spirit
and reverence of God) in it; but when, in our inquiries into the word,
we inquire not of God, but consult flesh and blood, the tem er of the
times wherein we live, or the satisfaction of a party we side withal,
and impose glosses upon it according to our own fancies, it is to put
laws upon God, and make self the rule of him. He that interprets
the law to bolster up some eager appetite against the will of the law-
giver, ascribes to himself as reat an authority as he that enacted it.
9. In falling off from God after some fair compliances, when his
will grateth ulpon us, and crosseth oius. They will walk with him
as far as he p easeth them, and leave him upon the first distaste, as
though God must observe their humors more than they his will.
Amos must be suspended from prophesying, because the “ land could
not bear his words," and his discourses condemned their unworthy
practices against God! The young man came not to receive direc-
tions from our Saviour, but expected a confirmation of his own rules,
rather than an imposition of new.Y He rather cares for commendaf
tions than instructions, and upon the disa pointment turns his back;
“ he was sad," that Christ would not auger him to be rich, and a
Christian together; and leaves him because his command was not
suitable to the law of his covetousness. Some truths that are at a
further distance from us, we can hear lgladl '; but when ~ the con-
science begins to smart under others, ' God will not observe our
wills, we will, with god, be a. law to ourselves! More instances
might be observed. gratitude is a settin up self, and an imposing
laws on God. It is as much as to say, Gro§d1d no more than he was
obliged to o; as if the mercies we have were an act of duty in God,
and not of bounty;--Insatiable desires after wealth: hence are those
speeches (James iv. 13), “ We will go into such a city, and bu and
sell, &,c. to get gain ;” as though they had the command of Goi and
God must lacquey after their wills. When our hearts are not con~
tented with any supply of our wants, but are craving an overplus for
our lust; when we are unsatisfied in the midst of lenty, and still
like the grave, cry, Give, give.-Incorrigibleness under afiiiction, &c.
H. The second main thing: As man would be a law to himself,
sohe would be his own end and happiness in opposition to God.
Here four things shall be discoursed on. 1. Man would make him-
self his own end and happiness. 2. He would make anything his end
and happiness rather than God. 3. He would make himself the end
of all creatures. 4. He would make himself the end of God.
First, Man would make himself his own end and happiness. As
God ought to be esteemed the first cause, in point of our dependence
on him, so he ought to be our last end, in point of our enjoyment
of him. When we therefore trust in ourselves, we refuse him as the
first cause; and when we act for ourselves, and expect a blessedness
from ourselves, we refuse him as the chiefest good, and last end,
which is an undeniable piece of atheism; for man is a creature of a
higher rank than others in the world, and was not made as animals
1 Amos vii. 10. . I Markx.17, 22. I Mark vi. 20, 27.

