136 cmnsocx ON ran urrnrsnrns.
gants, and other works of the divine power, materially to glorify
od, but a rational creature, intentionally to honor God by obedience
to his rule, dependence on his goodness, and zeal for his glory. It
is, therefore, as much a slighting of God, for man, a creature, to set
himself up as his own end, as to regard himself as his own law. For
the discover of this, observe that there is a three-fold self-love.
1. Natural which is common to us by the law of nature with
other creatures, inanimate as well as animate, and so closely twisted
with the nature of every creature, that it cannot be dissolved but
with the dissolution of nature itself It consisted not with the wis-
dom and goodness of God to create an unnatural nature, or to com-
mand anything unnatural, nor doth he ; for when he commands us
to sacrifice ourselves, and dearest lives for himself, it is not without
a promise of a more noble state of being in exchange for what we
lose. This self-love is not only commendable, but necessary, as a.
rule to measure that duty we owe to our neighbor, whom we cannot
love as ourselves, if we do not first love ourselves. God having
planted this self-love in our nature, makes this natural principle the
measure of our affection to all mankind of the same blood with our-
selves.
2. Carnal self-love : when a man loves himself above God, in oppo-
sition to God, with a contempt of God; when our thoughts, atlec-
tions, designs, centre only in our own flcshly interest, and riiie God
of his honor, to make a present of it to ourselves: thus the natural
seliilove, in itself good, becomes criminal by the excess, when it would
be superior and not subordinate to God.
3. A gracious self-love: when we love ourselves for higher ends
than the nature of a creature, as a creature dictates, viz. in subser-
viency to the glory of -God. This is a reduction of the revolted
creature to his true and happy order; a Christian is therefore said to
be “ created in Christ to good works.”“ As all creatures were created,
not only for themselves, but for the honor of God; so the grace of
the new creation carries a man to answer this end, and to order all
his operations to the honor of God, and his well-pleasing. The first
is from nature, the second from sin, the third from grace; the first
is implanted by creation, the second the fruit of corruption, and the
third is by the powerful operation of grace. This carnal self-love is
set up in the stead of God as our last end; like the sea, which all the
little and great streams of our actions run to and rest in. And this
is, 1. Natural. It sticks as close to us as our souls; it is as natural
as sin, the foundation of all the evil in the world. As sclf1abhor~
rency is the first stone that is laid in conversion, so an inordinate
self-love was the -first inlet to all iniquity. As grace is a. rising from
self to centre in God, so is sin a shrinking from God into the mire
of a carnal seldshness; since every creature is nearest te itself and
next to God, it cannot fall from God, but must immediatel ' sink
into self ;b and, therefore, all sins are well said to be branclies or
modifications of this fundamental passion. What is wrath, but a
defence and strengthening self against the attempts of some real or
imaginary evil? Whence springs envy, but hom a selfilove, grieved
- sph. i. 10. ~ More, Dial. 2. § imp an

