on rnscncan nrnsrsu. 137
utils own wants in the midst of another’s enjo ent, able to su ply
it? What is impatience, but a regret that sehlnis not provided) for
atthe rate of our wish, and that it hath met with a shock agiainst
snpgpsed merit? What is pride, but a sense of self-worth, a esire
to ve self of a higher elevation than others? What is drunken-
ness, but a seeking a satisfaction for sensual self in the spoils of rea-
son? No sin is committed as sin, but as it pretends a self-satisfac
tion. Sin, indeed, may well be termed a man’s self, because it is,
since the loss of original righteousness, the form that overspreads
every part of our souls. The understanding assents to nothing false
but under the notion of true, and the will embraceth nothing evil
but under the notion of good; but the rule whereby we measure the
truth and goodness of proposed objects, is not the unerring Word,
but the inclinations of self; the tifying of which is the aim of our
whole lives. Sin and self are zinime: what is called a living to sin
in one place,° is called a living to self in another: “ That they that
live should not live unto themselves.” And u on this account it
isstaléat béicth the Hebrew word, :ur-|,a.nd1the Greek word, 1221-gwiveiv,
in rituretoxresssin,r,p si ` tomisstemark,
and swerve If:-om thafusiite to whilih Ellrdiir azdlitoyns should be direct-
ed. viz. the glory of God. When we fell to loving omselves, we fell
fiom loving God; and, therefore, when the Psalmist saith (Psalm
xiv. 2), there were none that sought God, viz. as the last end; he
presently adds, “They are all gone aside,” viz. from their true mark,
and therefore become filthy. 2. Since it is natural, it is also univer-
ml' The not seeking God is as universal as om' ignorance of him.
No man in a state of nature but hath it predominant; no renewed
man on this side heaven but hath it partially. The one hath it
flourishing, the other hath it ’stru ling. If to aim at the glory of
God as the chief end, and not to lgre to ourselves, be the greatest
mark of the restoration of the divine image,f and a conformity to
Christ, who glorified not himself: but the Father ;h then every man,
wallowing in the mire of corrupt natiue, pays a homage to self, as a
renewed man is biassed by the honor of God. The Holy Ghost
Hfvepts none from- this crime (Phil. ii. Zlgz “All seek their own.”
It is rare for them to look above or beyon themselves. Whatsoever
My be the immediate subject of their thoughts and inquiries, yet
the utmost end and stage is their profit, honor, or pleasure. What-
ever it be that immediately possesses the mind and will, self sits like
iqneen, and sways the sceptre, and orders things at that rate, that
(rod is excluded, and can find no room in all his thoughts (Psalm x.
4); “The wicked, through the pride of his cou nance, will not seek
Hier God; God is not in all his thoughts.” e whole little world
Oi man is so overflowed with a deluge of self, t at the dove, the glory
ofthe Creator, can ind no place where to set its foot; and if ever it
gan the favor of admittance, it is to disguise and be avassal to some
varnal project, as the glory of God was a mask for the murdering his
nervantQ It is from the yilower of this princi le that the difliculty
if conversion ariseth: as t ere is no greater pleasure to a believing
‘ Rom. vi. ‘ l Cor. v. 15. ° Psalm xiv. l.
‘ 1 Cor. v. 16. I Heb. i. 5. i John xvii. 4.

