»
138 cnumocx ON THE yrrarsurss.
soul than the giving itself up to God, and no stronger desire in hun.,
alia to have a tixe and unchangeable will to serie cfhe desiglns of
1' onor; so ereisnogreatertorment to awic e man t anto
part with ` carnal ends, and lay down the Dagon of self at the feet
of the ark. lf-love and self-opinion in the Pharisees wa. *laid all
the entertainment of tru}tg(John v. 44): “They sought honor one
of another, and not the nor which comes from God.” It is of so
large an extent, and so insinuating nature, that it winds itself into
-the exercise of moral virtues, mixeth with our chariiéy (Matt. vi. 2),
and Ends nourishment in the ashes of martyrdom (1 or. xiii. 3).
This making ourselves our end will appear in a few things.
1. In frequent selflapplauses, and inward overweening reflections.
Nothing more ordinary in the natures of men, than adotage on their
own perfections, acquisitions, or actions in the world: "‘ Most think
of themselves above what they ouglht to think (Rom. xii. 3, 4.) liew
think of themselves so meanly as t e ought to think: this strc as
is ies sci o na ire. ur oug n more e C
f’1‘1i1"e“§1?€~“St°`Ll1“Ei“; Em ”*`<l"”“§il”' ii§§Sh?»§’e“`"°' °f1"i§‘l‘il$i§3
upon the track of our own perfcxztions, than thieigcellency of God;
and when we find anfything of a seemingmwort , that may make us
glitter in the eyes o the world, how c eerfully do we grasp and
gmbrage oipéseéyesld ilglherh thgs  profgnenessies of rpgzn lggyg
een isca e an e oo o em amme up e
of corruption, whence they sprang, will swell the highei within, in
self-applaudmg speculations of their own reformation, without ac-
know edgment o their own weaknesses, and desires of divinekassiist-
ance to make a fiuther progress. “I thank God I am not li 'e t is
publican ;”i a selflreflection, with a. contempt rather than compassion
13?  neighbor, is gagueint ira evtfgydilghanselp. “The vap<;1};s of _ sel;
econs,1nourc ue uners n gs ie osein eair
misty mornings, alter the appearance of tliings, and make them look
bigger than they are. This is thought by some to be the sin of the
fal1en_ angels, who, reflecting upon their own natural excellency
superior toGotih§§dcrea;1°es, Evouldi iirlrd a hlesseallneps in tgiei; <;]w_n
nature as o 'in ` an ma et emsevest e asten o t eir
actions. It is frolrp this principle we are naturally sp* ready £0 cilom-
pare ourselves rat er wit those that are below us, t an wit t oss
that-are above us; and often think those that are above us inferior
to 'us, and secretly glory that we are become none of the meanest
and lowest in natural or moraf excellencies. How far were the
gracious penmen of the Scri ture from this, who, when possessed
and directed by the Spirit of god and filled with a sense of him, in-
stead of applauding themselves, piiblish upon record their lpn? fauitg
to all the eyes of the world! And if Peter, as some thin , ictat
get (gospel whichd Mark wget/eMast his amanuenzghit til? pgservzablre
a is crime in enying IS as er is aggrava in a ospe 1
some circumstances and less spoken of his repentance than in the
other evangelists: z‘ When he thought thereon, he wept ;”* but in
the other, “He went out and wept bitterly.”1 This is one part of
| Luke xviii. ll. * Mark xiv. 72. 1 Matt. xxvi. 75. Luke xxii. 62.

