on PRACTICAL Aranrsu. 139
Kmeism and self-idolatry, to magnify ourselves with the forgetfulness,
and to the injury of our Creator.
2. In ascribing the glory of what we do or have to ourselves, to
our own wisdom, power, virtue, &c. How Haunting is Nebuchad-
nezzar at the prospect of Babylon, which he had exalted to be the
had of so great an empire! (Dan. iv. SO): “ Is not this great Baby-
lon thatl have -built? For,” &c. He struts u on the battlements
of his palace, as if there were no God but himsellfin the world, while
his eye could not but see the heavens above him to be none of his
own framing, attributing his acquisitions to his own arm, and refer-
ring them to his own honor, for his own delight; not for the honor
of God, as a creature ought, nor for the advantage of his subjects,
as the dut of a prince. He regards Babylon as his heaven, and
himself as   idol, as if he were all, and God nothing. An exam le
of this we have in the present age. But it is often observed, that
God vindicates his own honor, brings the most heroical men to con-
tempt and unfortunate ends, as a punishment of their pride, as he
did here (Dan. iv. 31): “ While the word was in the king’s mouth,
there fell a voice from heaven,” &c. This was Herod’s crime, to
suder others to do it rm he had discovered his eloquence actively, and
nmde himself his own end passively, in a proving the tiatteries of
the people, and offered not with one hand) to God the glory he re-
ceived from his people with the other." Samosatenus is reported to
put down the hymns which were sung for the glo of God and
Christ, and caused songs to be sung in the temple ibr%s own honor.
'When anything succeeds well, we are ready to attribute it to our
own prudence and industry: if we meet with a cross, we fret against
the stars and fortune, and second causes, and sometimes against God:
as they curse God as well as their king (Isa. viii. 21), not acknowl-
edging any defect in themselves. 'llhe Psalmist, by his repetition
oi, “ Not lmto us, not unto us, but to thy name give glory” (Psalm
cxv. 1), implies the naturality of this temper, and the difficulty to
cleanse our hearts from those self-reflections. If it be angelical to
refuse an undue glory stolen from God’s throne (Rev. xxii. 8, 9), it
is diabolical to accept and cherish it. To seek our own glory is not
glory (Prov. xxv. 27). It is vile, and the dishonor of a creature,
who by the law of his creation is referred to another end. So much
as we sacrifice to our own credit, to the dexterity of our hands, or
the ssgacity of our wit, we detract from God. V
3. In desires to have self-pleasing doctrines. When we cannot
endure to hear anything that crosses the llesh; though the wise man
tells us, it is better to hear the “rebuke of the wise, than the song of
fbols ” (Eccles. vii. 5). If Hanani the seer reprove king Asa for not
relying on the Lord, his passion shall be armed for self against the
S het, and arrest him a prisoner (2 Chron. xvi. 10). If Micaiah
Zara to Ahab the evil that shall befall him, Amo he governor
shall receive orders to clap him up in a dungeon. re doth not
sooner seize upon mbustible matter than furuy will be kindled, if
lelf be but pinch . This interest of lustiiil se barred the heart of
Heroiias against e entertainment of the truth, and caused her
I Sander-|on’e Sermons. = Acts xii 22, 28.

