140 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
savagely to dip her hands in the blood of the Baptist, to make him
a sacrifice to t at inward idol.°
4. In being highly concerned for injuries done to ourselves, and
little or not at all concerned for injiuies done to God. How will the
blood rise in us, when our honor and reputation is invaded, and
scarce reiiect upon the dishonor God suffers in our sight and hear~
ing! Tiolent passions will transform us into Boanerges in the one
case, and our unconcernedness render us Gallios in the other. \Ve
shall extenuate that which concerns God, and aggravate that which
concerns ourselves. Nothing but the death of Jonathan, a first-born
and a generous son, will satisfy his father Saul, when the authority
of his edict was broken by his tasting of honey, though he had
recompensed his crime committed in ignorance by the purchase of a
gallant victory. But when the authority of God was violated in
saving the Amalekites’ cattle, against t e command of a greater
sovereign than himself, he can daub the business, and excuse it with
a design of sacrificing. He was not so earnest in hindering the people
from the breach of God’s command, as he .was in vindicating the
honor of his own :P he could hardly admit of an excuse to salve his
own honor; but in the concerns of God’s honor, pretend piet f, to
cloak his avarice. And it is often seen, when the violation of (iod’s
authority, and the stain of our own reputation are cou led together,
we are more troubled for what disgraces us than for what dishonors
God. When Saul had thus transgressed, he is desirous that Samuel
would turn again to preserve his own honor before the elders, rather
than 'eved that he had broken the command of God (ver. 30).
5. lim-[trusting in ourselves. When we consult with our own wit
and wisdom, more than inquire of God, and ask leave of him: as the
Assyrian (Isa. x. 13), “ By the strength of ‘ny hands I have done it,
and by my wisdom; for am prudent.” hen we attempt things
in the strength of our own heads, and parts, and trust in our own
industry, without application to God for direction, blessing, and suc-
cess, we atiect the privilege of the Deity, and makegods of ourselves.
The same language in reality with Ajax in Sophocles: “ Others think
to overcome with the assistance of the gods, but I hope to gain honor
without them.” Dependence and trust is an act due from the creature
only to God. Hence God aggravat/cs the crime of the Jews in trust-
ing in Egypt (Isa. xxxi. 3), “the Egyptians are men and not gods.”
Confidence in ourselves is a defection rom God (Jer. xvii. 5). And
when we depart from and cast. off God to depend u on ourselves,
which is but an arm of flesh, we choose the arm of flesh for our God;
we rob God of that confidence we ou ht to place in him, and that
adoration which is due to him, and build it upon another foundation;
not that we are to neglect the reason and parts God hath given us,
or spend more time in prayer than in consulting about our own
affairs, but to mix our own intentions in business, with ejaculations
to heaven, and take God along with us in every motion: but certainly
it is an idolizing of self, when we are more diligent in our attendance
on our own wit, than fervent in our recourses to God.
6. The power of sinful self, above the eflicacy of the notion of God,
' Mark vi. 18, 19, 28. I 1 Sam. xv. 21.

