ON 1>aAcrrcAL ATHEISI. _ 141
is evident in our workings for carnal self against the light of our own
consciences. When men of sublime reason, and clear natural wisdom,
are voluntary slaves to their own lusts, row against the stream of
their own consciences, serve carnal self with a disgraceful and disf
turbing drudgery, making it their God, sacrificing natural self,` all
sentiments of virtue, and the quiet of their lives, to the pleasure,
honor, and satisfaction of carnal self: this is a prostituting God in his
deputy, conscience, to carnal affections, when their eyes are shut
against the enlightenings of it, and their ears deaf to its voice, but
open to the least breath and whisper of self; a debt that the creatine
owes supremely to God. Much more might be said, but let us see
what atheism lurks in this, and how it entrencheth upon God.
1. It is usurping God’s prerogative. It is God’s prerogative to be
his own end, and act for his own glor ; because there is nothing
superior to him in excellency and goodliiess to act for: he had not
his being from anything without himself; whereby he should be
obliged to act for an thing but himself To make ourselves then our
last end, is to corrival' God in his being the supreme good, and bless-
edness to himself: as if we were our own principle, the author of our
own being, and were not obliged to a higher power than ourselves,
for what we are and have. To direct the lines of all our motions to
ourselves, is to imply ‘that they first issued only from ourselves.
When we are rivals to God in his chief end, we own or desire to be
rivals to him in the principle of his being: this is to set ourselves in
the place of God. All things have something without them, and
above them as their end; all inferior creatiues act for some su erior
order in the rank of creation; the lesser animals are designed iiir the
gxgastgr, and all for man: man, therefore, for something nobler than
' li To make ourselves therefore our own end, is to deny any
superior, to whom we are to direct our actions. God alone being the
supreme Being, can be his own ultimate end: for if there were any-
thing higher and better than God, the purity and righteousness of his
own nature would cause him to act for and toward that as his chicfest
mark: this is the highest saerilege, to alienate the proper good and
rights of God, and employ them for our own use; to steal from him
his own honor, and put it into our own cabinets; like those birds
that ravished the sacriiice from the altar and carried it to their own
_nestsul ®en we love only ourselves, and act for no other end but
ourselves, we invest ourselves with the ominion which is the right
of God, and take the crown nom his head. For as the crown belongs
to the king, so to love his own will, by his own will and for
himself, is the property'of God; because he hath no other will, no
other end above him to be the rule and seo of his actions. When
therefore we are by self-love transformed wgieolly into ourselves, we
make oluselves our own foundation, without God and against God;
when we mind our own glory and praise, we would have a royal
state equal with God, who created all things for himself' What can
man do more for God than he naturally doth for himself, since he
doth all those things for himself which he should do for God? We
1 Sabunde, Tit. 140. ' Prov. xvi. 4.

