142 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
own ourselves to be our own creators and benefactors, and fling 0K
all sentiments of gratitude to him.
2. It is a vilifying of God. When we make oluselves our end, it is
plaip language that God is not our happiness; we postpone God to
ourselves, as if he were not an object so excellent and fit for our love
as ourselves are (for it is irrational to make that om' end, which is
not God, and not the chiefest good); it is to deny him to be better
than we, to make him not to be so good as ourselves, and so Bt to be
om' chiefest good as ourselves are; that he hath not deserved any
such acknowledgment at our hands by all that he hath done for us :
we assert ourselves his superiors b such kind of acting, though we
are innnitely more inferior to God, than any creature can be to us.
Man cannot dishonor God more than by referring that to his own
glory, which God made for his own praise, upon account whereof he
only hath a right to glory and praise, and none else. He thus
“changeth the glory of the incorruptible God into a corruptible
image ;"° a perishing fame and reputation, which extends but little
beyond the limits of his own habitation ; or if it doth, survives but
a. few years, and perishes at last with the age wherein he lived.
3. It is as much as in us lies a destroying of God. By this temper
we destroy that God that made us, because we destroy his intention
and his honor. God cannot outlive his will and his glory: because
he cannot have any other rule but his own will, or any other end
but his own honor. The setting up self as our end puts a nullity
upxon the true Deity; by paving to ourselves that respect and honor
W ich is due to God, we make the true God as no God. Whosoever
makes himself a king of his prince’s rights and territories, manifests
an intent to throw him out of his government. To choose ourselves
als our end is to undeify God, since to be the last end of a rational
creature is a right inse Jarable from the nat1u°e of the Deity; and
therefore not to set Godl but self always before us, is to acknowledge
no being but ourselves to be God.
Secondly. The second thing, Man would make anything his end
and happiness rather than God. An end is so necessary in all our
actions, that he deserves not the name of a rational creature that
proposeth not one to himself This is the distinction between
rational creatures and others; they act with a formal intention,
whereas other creatures are directed to their end by a natural
instinct, and moved by nature to what the others should be moved
by reason: when a man, therefore, acts for that end which was not
intended him by the law of his creation, nor is suited to the noble
faculties of his soul, he acts contrar 'to God, overturns his order, and
merits no better a title than that ofy an atheist. A man may be said
two ways to make a thing his last end and chief good.
1. Formally. When he actuall judges this or that thing to be
his chiefest good, and orders all things to it. So man doth not for-
mally `udge sin to be good, or any object which is the incentive of
sin to be his last end: this cannot be while he hath the exercise of
his rational faculties.
2. Virtually and implicitly. When he loves anything against the
' Rom. i. 28.

