on PRACTICAL xrnnrsia. 148
command of God, and prefeisin the stream of his actions the enjoy-
ment of that, before the fruition of God, and lays out more strength
and expends more time in the gaining that, than answering the true
end of his creation: when he acts so as if something below God
could make him happy without God, or that God could not make
him happy without the addition of something else. Thus the glutton
makes a god of histdainties; the ambitious man of his honor; the
incontinent man of his lust; and the covetous man of his wealth;
and consequently esteems them as his chiefest good, and the most
noble end, to which he directs his thoughts: thus he vilifies and
l®ens the true God, which can make him happy, in a multitude of
false gods, that can only render him miserable. He that loves pleas-
ure more than God, says in his heart there is no God but his pleasure.
He that loves his belly more than God, says in his heart there is no
God but his belly: their happiness is not accounted to lie in that
God that made the world, but in the pleasure or prot they make
their god. ln this, though a created object be the immediate and
subordinate term to which we turn, et principally and ultimately,
the affection to it terminates in self lgothmg is naturally entertained
by us, but as itaifects our sense or mingles with some promise of
advantage to us. This is seen,
1. In the fewer thoughts we have of God than of anything else.
Did we apprehend God to be our chiefest good and highest end,
should we grudge him the pains of a few days’ thoughts upon him?
Men in their travels are frequently thinking upon their intended
stage: but our thoughts run upon new acquisitions to increase our
wealth, rear up our families, revenge our injuries, and support our
reputation: triiles possess us; but “God is not in all our thoughts ;”*
seldom the sole object of them. We have durable thoughts of tran-
sitory things, and Hitting thoughts of a durable and eternal good.
The covenant of grace engageth the whole heart to God, and bars
anything else from engrossing it: but what strangers are God and
the souls of most men! Though we have the knowledge of him by
creation, yet he is for the most part an unknown God in the relations
wherein he stands to us, because a God undelighted in: hence itis, as
one observes, thatbecause we observe not the ways of God’s wisdom,
conceive not of him in his vast perfections, nor a.re stricken with an
admiration of his goodness, that we have fewer good sacred poems,
than of any other kind.“ The wits of men hang the wing when they
come to exercise their reasons and fancies about God. Parts and
strength are given us, as well as corn and wine to the Israelites, for
the service of God; but those are consecrated to some cursed Baal!
Like Venus in the Poet, we forsake heaven to follow some Adonis.
2. In the greedy pursuit of the world.Y When we pursue worldly
wealth or worldly reputation with more vehemency t an the riches
of grace, or the favor of God ;-when we have a foolish imagination,
that our happiness consists in them, ,we prefer earth before heaven,
broken cisterns which can hold no water, before an ever-springing
fountain of glory and bliss; and, as though there were a efect in
‘ Psalm x. 4. ‘ Jackson, Book I. c. 14, p. 48. ‘ Hoe. ii. 8.
1 Quod quisque pri- cxeteris petit, summum judicat bonum. Boet. lib.   p. 24.

