144 CHARNOCK ON 'ma ATTRIBUTES.
God, cannot be content with him as our portion, without an addition
of something inferior to him ;-when we make it our hopes, and say
to the wedge, “ Thou art my confidence ;” and rejoice more because
it is great, and because “our hand hath gotten much, than in the
orivilege of communion with God and the promise of an everlasting
tuition of him;1 this is so gross, that Job joins it with the idolatry
of the sun and moon, which he purgeth himself of (xxxi. 26).
.And the apostle, when he mentions covetousness or coveteus men,
passes it not over without the title of idolatry to the vice, and idolater
to the person ;“ in that it is a preferring clay and dirt as an end more
desirable than the original of all goodness, in regard of affection and
dependence.
3. In a strong addicteduess to sensual pleasures (Phil.   19).
Who make their “belly their god ;” subjecting the truths of God to
the maintenance of their luxury. In debasing the higher faculties to
project for the satisfaction of the sensitive appetite as their chief hap-
piness, whereby many render themselves no better than a rout of
sublimated brutes among men, and gross atheists to God. When
men’s thoughts run also upon inventing new methods to satisfy their
bestial appetite, forsaking the leasures which are to be had in God,
which are the delights of angelld, for the satisfaction of brutes. This
is an open and unquestionab e refusal of God for our end, when our
rest is in them, as if they were the chief good, and not God.
4. In paying a service, uplon any success in the world, to instru-
ments more than to God, t eir sovereign Author. When “they
sacrilice to their net, and burn incense to their dr .”*' Not that the
Assyrian did offer a sacrifice tn his arms, but aserilied to them what
was due only to God, and appropriated the victory to his forces and
arms. The prophet alludes to those that worshipped their warlike
instruments, whereby they had attained great victories; and those
artificers who worshipped the tools by which they had piuchascd
great wealth, in the stead of God; preferring them as the causes of
their happiness, before God who governs the world. And are not
our affections, upon the receiving of good things, more closely fixed
to the instruments of conveyance, than to the chief Bcnefactor, from
whose coffers they are taken? Do we not more delight in them, and
hug them with a greater endearedness, as if all our happiness depended
on them, and God were no more than a bare s ectator? Just as if
when a man were warmed by a beam, he should adore that and not
admire the sun that darts it out upon him.
5. In paying a respect to man more than God. When in a public
attendance on his service, wc will not lauvh, or be garish, because
men see us; but our hearts shall be in a ridiculous posture, playing
with feathers and trifling fancies, though God see us; as though our
happiness consisted in the pleasing of men, and our misery in a res ct
to (rod. There is no foo -that saith in his heart, There is no did,
but he sets up something in his heart as a god. This is,
1. A debasing of Gold,(1.) In setting u a creature. It speaks
God less amiable than the creature, short od) those pcrfections which
some sillv, sordid thing, which hath engrossed their affections, is pos
' Job xxxi. 24, 25. * Col. iii. 5. Eph. v. 5. * Hub. i. 16.

