s ON .rmcrrcn srsarsn. 145
sand with; as if the cause of all being- could be transcended by his
creature., and a vile lust could equal, yea, surmount the loveliness of
God. It is to say to God, as the rich to the ,poor (James ii. 3), “Stand
thou there., or sit here under myfootstdol; i.t is to sink him below
the mire of the world, to order him to come down from his glorious
throne, andtake his lace below a contemptible creature, which, in
regard of its infinite Sisfance, is not to be compared with him. It
my God of the love thatvis due to him by the right of his nature
an the greatness of his dignity; and~of the trust that is due to him,
asthe First Cause and the chiefest good, as though he were too feeble
and mean to be Qur blessedness. This is intolerable, to make that
which is God's footstool, the earth, to climb up into his throne; to
set that in our heart which God hath made even below ourselves and
putunder our feet; to make that which we trample u n to dispose
of the right God hath to our hearts! It is worse tiign if a queen
should fall in love with' the little image of the prince in the palace,
and slight the beauty of his person; and as if eople should adore
thefootsteps of a. king in the dirt, and turn their backs upon his
prsence. (2.) It doth more debase him to set up a sin, a lust, a
carnal affection as our chief end. To steal away the honor due to
God, and appropriate it to that which is no work of his hands, to
that which is loathsome in his sight, hath disturbed his rest, and
wrung out his just breath to kindlena hell for its eternal lodging, a
God~dishonoring and a soul-murdering lust, is worse than to prefer
Banbbas before Christ. The baser the thin , the worse is the 1I1j`l1l'y
to him with whom we would associate it. IT it were some generous
principle, a thing useful to the world, that we place in an equality
with; or a superiority above him, though it were a vile usage, yet
it were not altogether so criminal; but to   some unworthy
appetite with the displeasure of the Creator, something below the
rational nature of man, much more infinitel below the excellent
majesty of God, is a more unworth usage of   To advance one
of the most virtuous nobles in a» Kingdom as a mark of our service
and subjection, is not so dishonorable to a despised rince as to take
s ambby beggar or a rotten carcase to place in his throne. Creeping
things, abominable beasts, the Egyptian idols, cats and croco ` es,
were greater abominations, and a greater despite done to God, than the
image of jealousy at the gate of the alta.r.d And let not any excuse
themselves, that it is but one lust or one creature which is preferred
3 the end: is not he an idolater that worships_the sun or moon, one
idol, as well as he that worships the whole host of heaven? The
inordinacy of the heart to one lust may impli a stronger contempt
of him, than if a legion of lusts did possess e heart. It argues a
r disesteem, when he shall be slighted for a single vanity. The
55?-:of Bbau’s profaneness in contemning his birth~right, and Grod
in it, is aggravated by his selling it for one morsel of meat,° and that
none of the daintiest, none of the costliest-a mess of pottage;
imlplying, had he parted with it at a greater rate, it had been more
to rable, and his profaneness more excusable. And it is reckoned
as a high aggravation of the corruption of the Isra/elite judges (Amos
° Fei-cnberg do Adorat. p. 80. 4 Ezek. viii. 5, 6, 10. , ° Heb. xii. 16.
TOL. 1.-I 0

