146 crnmrocx ON 'rim ATTRIBUTES.
ii. 6), that they sold the poor for a pair of shoes; that is, that they
would betray the cause of the poor for a bribe of no greater value
than might purchase them a pair of shoes. To place any o thing
as our chief end, thou h never so light, doth not excuse. e that
will not stick to breagk with God for a trifle, a small pleas , will
lea the hedge u on a greater temptation. Nay, and if wealth,
ricllies, friends, and) the best thing in the d, our own lives, be
preferred before God, as our chief happiness and end but one
moment, it is an infinite wrong, because the infinite goodness and
excellency of God is denied; as though the creature or lust we love,
or our own life, which we prefer in that short moment before him,
had a goodness in itself, superior to, and more desiral le than the
blessedness in God. And t ough it should be but one minute, and
a man in all the period of his days, both before and after that failure,
should actually and intentionally prefer God before all other things;
yet he doth him an innnite wrong, because God in every moment is
infinitely good, and absolutely desirable, and can never cease to be
good, and cannot have the least shadow or change in him and his
perfections.
2. It is a denying of God (Job xxxi. 26-28): “If I beheld the
sun when it shined, or the moon walking in its brightness, and m
heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed miy handi
this also were iniquity to be punished by the judge, for should
have denied the Lord above.” This denial of God is not only the
act of an open idolater, but the consequent of a secret confidence,
and immoderate joy in worldly goods. This denial of God is to be
referred to ver. 24, 25. When a man saith to gold, “Thou art my
confidence,” and rejoices because his wealth is great; he denies\that
God which is superior to all those, and the roper object of trust.
Both idolatries are coupled here together; that which hath wealth
and that which hath those glorious creatures in heaven for its object.
And though some may think it a light sin, yet the crime being of
deeper guilt, a denial of God, deserves a severer punishment, and
falls under the sentence of the just Judge of all the earth, under
that notion which Job intimates in those words, “ This also were an
iniquity to be punished by the Judge.” Thekissing the hand to
the sim, moon, or any idol, was an external sign of religious worshi
among those and other nations. This is far less than an inward
hearty confidence, and an aifectionate trust. If the motion of the
hand be, much more the aifection of the heart to an excrementitious
creature, or a brutish pleasure, is a denial of God, and a kind of an
abjuring of him, since the su reme affection of the soul is undoubt-
edly and solely the right of the Sovereign Creator, and not to be
given in common to others, as the outward gesture mag' in a way of
civil respect. Nothing that is an honor peculiar to Go can be given
to a creature, without a lain exclusion of God to be God; it bein
a disowning the rectitudb and excellcncy of his nature. If God
should command a creature such a love, and such a confidence in
anything inferior to him, he would deny himself his own glory, he
would deny himself to be the most excellent being. Can the Ro~
manists be free from this, when they call the cross spem umbam, and

