ON rrmcfrrcn. Arnmsx. 147
lay to the Virgin, In te Domina sjperam, as Bonaventure? &c. Good
mason, therefore, have worldlings and sensualists, persons of immod-
erate fondness to anything in the world, to reflect upon themselves;
since though they own the bein of God, they are guilty of so great
disrespect to him, that cannot be excused from the title of an un-
worthy atheism; and those that are renewed b the spirit of God,
may here see ground of a daily humiliation for the frequent and too
common excursions of their souls in creature eonfidences and affec-
tions, whereby they fall under the charge of an act of practical
atheism, though they may be free from a habit of it.
Thirdly, Man would make himself the end of all creatures. Man
would sit in the seat of God, and set his heart as the heart of God,
as the Lord saith of Tyrus (Ezek. xxviii. 22. What is the conse-
quence of this, but to be esteemed the chie good and end of other
creatures? a thing) that the heart of God cannot but be set ulpon, it
being an insepara le right of the Deity, who must deny himse f if he
deny this affection of the heart. Since it is the nature of man, derived
from his root, to desire to be equal with God, it follows that he desires
no creature should be equal with him, but subservient to his ends
and his glory. He that would make himself God, would have the
honor proper to God. He that thinks himself worthy of his own
supreme affection, thinks himself worthy to be the object of the su-
preme affection of others. Whosoever counts himself the chiefest
good and last end, would have the same lace in the thoughts of
others. Nothing is more natural to man th)an a desire to have his
own judgment the rule and measure of the judgments and o inions of
the rest of' mankind. He that sets himself in the place of 'Exe prince,
doth, by that act, challenge all the prerogatives and dues belonging
to the rinee; and apprehending himself fit to be a king, apprehends
himseli) also worthy of the homage and fealty of the subjects. He
that loves himself chietl , and all other things and ersons for him-
self, would make himself? the end of 'all creatures. Pt hath not been
once or twice only in the world that some vain princes have assumed
to themselves the title of gods, and caused divine adorations to be
gain to them., and altars to smoke with sacrifices for their honor.
at hath been practised by one, is by nature seminally in all ; we
would have all ay an obedience to us, and give to us the esteem
that is due to God. This is evident,
1. In pride. When we entertain a high o inion of ourselves, and
act for our own re utes, we dispossess God) from our own hearts;
and while we wouldp have our fame to be in every rnan’s month, and
be admired in the hearts of men, we would chase God out ofthe hearts
of others, and deny his glory a residence anywhere else, that our
glory should reside more in their minds than the glory of God;
that their thoughts should be filled with our achievements, more than
the works and excellency of God, with our image, and not with the
divine. Pride would paramount God in the affections of others, and
iustle God out of their souls; and by the same reason that man
oth thus in the place where he lives, he would do so in the whole
world, and press the whole creation from the service of their true
Lord, to his own service. Every proud man would be counted by

