148 crraruvocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
others as he counts himself; the highest, chiefest iece of goodness,
and be adored by others, as much as he adores and admires himselil
No proud man, in his self-love, and self-admiration, thinks himself
in an error; and if he be worthy of his own admiration, he thinks
himself worthy of the highest esteem of others, that they should
value him above themselves, and value themselves only for him.
What did Nebuchadnezzar intend b setting up a golden image, and
commanding all his subjects to worship it, upon the highest penalty
he could infiict, but that all should aim only at the leasing his humor?
2. In using the creatures contrary to t e end god has ap ointed.
God created the world and all things in it, as _steps whereihy men
might ascend to a prospect of him, and the acknowledgment of his
glory; and we would use them to dishonor God, and gratify our-
selves: he appointed them te supply our necessities, and support our
rational delights, and we use them to cherish our sinful lusts. We
wring groans from the creature in diverting them from their true
scope to one of our own fixing, when we use them not in his service,
but purely for our own, and turn those things he created for himself,
to be instruments of rebellion against him to serve our turns, and
hereby endeavor to defeat the ends of God in them, to establish our own
ends by them: this is a high dishonor te God, a sacrilegious undermin-
ing of his glory,f to reduce what God hath made to serve our own
glory and our own pleasure ; it erverts the whole order of the
world, and directs it to another emi) than what God hath constituted,
to another intention contrary to the intention of God; and thus man
makes himself a God by his own authority. As all things were
made by God, so they are for God; but while we aspire to the end
of the creation, we deny and envy God the honor of eing Creator;
we cannot make ourselves the chief end of the creatures against God’s
order, but we imply thereby that we were their first principle; for
if we lived under a sense of the Creator of them while we enjoy
them for our use, we should return the glory to the right owner.
This is diabolical; thou h the devil, for his nrst affecting an authority
in heaven, has been huiled down from the state of an angel of light
into that of darkness, vileness, and misery, to be the most accursed
creature living, yet he still aspires te mate God, contrary to the
knowledge of the impomibility of success in it. Neither the terrors
he feels, nor the future torments he doth expect, do a jot abate his
ambition to be competitor with his Creator; how often hath he, since
his first sin, arrogated to himself the honor of a God from the blind
world, and attempted to make the Son of God, by a particular wor-
ship, count him as the “chiefest good and benefactor of the world !”s
Since all men by nature are the devil’s children, the serpent’s seed,
they have somet ` of this venom in their natures, as well as others
of is qualities. e see that there may be, and is a prodigious
atheism, lurking under the belief of a God; the devilknows there
is a God, but acts like an atheist; and so do his childrgh
Fourthly, Man would make himself the end of God. is neces-
sarily follows upon the former; whosoever makes himself his own
law and his own end in the place of God, would make God the sub-
' Sabunde, Tit 200. p. 352. l Matt. iv. 9

