on PRACTICAL Arnnrsn. 149
y at in making himselfthe sovereign; he that ste into the throne
of a prince, sets the prince at his footstool; ands while he assumes
the tpiéincds prerogative, demands a subjection from him. The order
of creation has been inverted by the entrance of sin! God im-
planted an affection in man with a double aspect, the one to pitch
upon God, the other to respect ourselves; but with this proviso, that
our a&`ect:ion to God shoul be infinite, in regard of the object, and
centre in him as the chiefest happiness and highest end. Our affec-
tions to ourselves should be iimte, and refer ultimately to God as the
original of our being; but sin hath turned man’s affections wholly to
himself; whereas he should love God first, and himself in order to
God; he now loves himself first, and God in order to himself; love
to God is lost, and love to self hath usurped the throne. As God by
“creation ut all things under the feet of ma.n,”i reserving the heart
for   man by corruption hath   God of his heart,
and put him under his own feet. We often intend ourselves when
we pretend the honor of God, and make God and religion a stale to
some designs we have in hand; our Creator a. tool for our own ends.
This is evident,
1. In our loving God, because of some seliipleasing benefits dis-
tributed by him. There is in men a. kind of natural love to God,
but it is but a secondary one, because God gives them the good things
of this world, spreads their table, ills their cup, stuffs their coffers,
and doth them some good turns by unexpected providences; this is
not an affection to od for the unbounded excellencpy of his own
nature, but for his beneficence, as he opens his hand or them; an
:faction to themselves, and those creatures, their gold, their honor,
which their hearts are most fixed upon, without a. strong spiritual
inclination that God should be glorified by them in the use of those
mercies. It is rather a. disowmng of God, than any love to him,
because it postpones God to those things they love him for; this
would ap ar to be no love, if God should cease to be their benefac-
tor, and dieeal with them as a judge; if he 'should change his outward
smiles into afilicting 'fi'owns, an not only shut his hand, but strip
them of what he sent them. The motive of their love being ex-
pired, the affection raised by it must cease for want of fuel to feed
it; so that God is beholden to sordid creatures of no value (but as
thev are his creatiues) for most of the love the sons of men pretend.
to him. The devil spake truth of most men, though not of Job,
when he said (Job i. 9); “They love not God for naught ;" but while
he makes a hed about them and their families, whilst he blesseth
the works of this hands, and increaseth their honor in the land.
It is like Peter’s sharp reproof of his Master, when he spake of the
ill-usage, even to death, e was to meet with at Jerusa em: “This
shall not be unto thee.” It was as much out of love to himself] as
zeal for his Master's interest, knowing his Master could not be in
meh a storm without some drops lig ting upon himself All the
'es of men in the world are witnesses to this; they fawn whilst
may have a prosperous rofession, but will n`ot bear one chip of
the eros for the interest of éiod; they would partake of his blessings,
I-p»¢1,1>¢na§ao,|ao4. frmimviiu
l

