150 clmnuoox ON THE Arrnisurns.
but not endure the prick of a lance for him, as those, that admired
the miracles of our Saviour, and shrunk at his suiferings. A time
of trial discovers these mercenary souls to be more lovers of them-
selves than their Maker. This is a pretended love of friendship to
God, but a real love to a lust, onlly to gain by God. A good man’s
temper is contrary: “Quench he , burn heaven,” said a holy man,
“ I will love and fear m God."
2. It is evident, in abstinence from some sins, not because they
oifend God, but because they are against the interest of -some other
beloved corruption, or a bar to something men hunt after in the
world. When temperance is cherished not to honor God, but pre-
serve a crazy carcasmaprodigality forsaken, out of a humor of ava-
rice; uncleanness fors en, not out of a hatred of lust, but love to
their money; declining a denial of the interest and truth of God, not
out of affection to them, but an ambitious zeal for their own reputa-
tion. There is a kind of conversion from sin, when God is not made
the term of it (Jer. iv. I): “If thou wilt return, O Israel, return
unto me, saith the Lordfk When we forbear sin as dogs do the
meat they love: the forbear not out of a hatred of the carrion, but
fear of the cudgel; tliese are as wicked in their abstaining from sin,
as others are in their furious committing it. Nothin of the honor
of God and the end of his appointments is indeed in 15] this, but the
conveniences self gathers from them. Again, many of the motives
the generality of the world uses to their friends and relations to draw
them from vices, are drawn from self, and used to pro up natural
or sinful self in them. Come, reform yourself; take ollier courses,
you will smut your reputation and be despicable; you will destroy
your estate, and commence a beggar; yo1u‘ family will be undone,
and you may rot in a prison: not aying close to t em the duty they
owe to God, the dishonor which accrues to him by their unworthy
courses, and the ingratitude to the God of their mercies; not that
the other motives are to be laid aside and slighted. Mint and cum-
min may be tithed, but the weightier concerns are not to be omitted;
but this shows that self is the bias, not only of men in their own
course, but in their dealings with others; what should be subordinate
to the honor of God, and the dut We owe to him, is made superior.
3. It is evident, in performing duties merely for a selfish interest.:
making] ourselves the end of religious actions, paying a homage to
that, w ile we pretend to render it to God (Zech. vii. 5): “Did you
at all fast unto me, even unto me ?” Things ordained by God may
fall in with carnal ends affected by ourselves; and then religion is
not kept up by any interest of God in the conscience, but the interest
of self in the heart: we then sanctify not the name of God in the
duty, but gratify ourselves: God may be the object, self is the end ;
and a heavenly object is made subservient to a carnal design. Hy-
pocrisy passes a compliment on God, and is called Hatte’I1;g'(Psalm
xxviii. 36): “ They id flatter him with their lips,” &c. ey gave
him a. rcel of good words for their own preservation. Flattery, in
the olffliotion among the heatliens, is a vice more peculiar to serve
our own turn and purvey for the belly: they knew they could' not
i Trap, on Gen. p. 148.

