ON PRACTICAL urnsisu. - 151
subsist without God, and therefore gave him a arcel of good words,
that he might spare them, and make lprovision ibr them. Israel is an
empty vine,l a vine, say some, with urge branches and few clusters-
but brings forth fruit to himself: while they professed love to God
with their lips, it was that God should promote heir covetous de-
signs, and preserve their wealth and grandeur ;" i which respect a
hypocrite ma be well termed a religious atheist, an theist masked
with religio The chicf arguments which prevail with many men
to erform .ome duties and appear religious, are the same that Hamor
and) Shechem used to the eople of their city to submit to circumcis-
ion, viz. the engrossing oi? more wealth (Gen. xxxiv. 21, 22): “ If
every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised, shall
not their cattle and their substance, and every beast of theirs, be
ours ?” This is seen,
(1.) In unwieldiness to religious duties where self is not concerned.
With what lively thoughts will many approach to God, when a reve-
nue may be brought in to support t eir own endsl But when the
concerns of God only are in it, the duty is not the delight, but the
clog; such feeble devotions, that warm not the soul, unless there be
something of selfto give strength and heat to them. Jonah was sick
of his work, and run from God; because he thought he should get no
honor by his message: God’s mercy would discredit his prophecy."
Thoughts of disadvantage cut the very sinews of service. You may
as well persuade a mercrhant to venture all his estate upon the incon-
stant waves without hopes of gain, as prevail with a natural_ man to
be serious in duty, without expectation of some warm advantage.
“ What profit should we have if we pray to him ?” is the natural
guestion (Job xxi. 15). “ What lproiit shall I have if I be cleansed
rom my sin Y” (Job xxxv. 3). shall have 'more good by my sin
than by my service. It is for God that I dance before the ark, saith
David, therefore I will be more vile (2 Sam. vi. 22). It is for self
that I pray, saith a natural man, therefore I will be more warm and
quick. Ordinances of God are observed only as a point of interest,
and rayer is often most fervent, when it is least godly, and most
selfish; carnal ends and affections will pour out lively expressions.
If there be no delight in the means that lead to God, there is no de-
light in God himself; because love is afyvetitus umhfnzls, a desire of
union; and where the object is desirable, the means that brings us
to it would be delightful too.
(2.) In callin upon God only in a time of necessity. How ofii-
cious will men be m atiliction, to that God whom they neglect in
their prosperity I “ When he slew them, then they sought him, and
the returned and in uired after God, and ey remembered that
God was their rock” salm lxxviii. 34). y remembered him
under the scourge, an forffot him under his smiles: thev visit the
throne of grace, knock loud at heaven’s gates, and 've Gvod no rest
for their early and importunate devotions when under distress: but
when their desires are answered, and the rod removed, they stand
aloof fi-om him, and rest upon their own bo , as Jer. ii. 31 : “We
are lords; we will come no more unto thee.” Vi/'hen we have need
' Hoo. x 1. ' Ezek. xxxiii. 31. I Jonah iv. 2.

