152 CHARNOCK ON rss A'1‘TBIBUTES.
of him, he shall find us clients at his gate; and when we have served
mu' turn, he hears no more of us: like Noah’s dove sent out of the
ark, that returned to him when she found no rest on the earth, but
came not back when she found a footing elsewhere. How often do
men ap ly themselves to God, when t ey have some business for
him to so for them! And then too, they are loth to put it solely
into his hand to manage it for his own honor; but they presume to
be his directors, that he may manage it for their glory. Self spurs
men on to the throne of grace; they desire to be furnished with
some mercy the want, or to have the clouds of some judgments
which they fear blown over: this is not affection to God, but to our-
selves: as the Romans worshipped a quartan ague as a goddess, and
Timorem and Pallorem, fear and paleness, as gods; not out of any
affection they had to the disease or the passion, but for fear to receive
any hurt by them. Again, when we have gained the mercy we
need, how little do we warm our souls with the consideration ot that
God that gave it, or lay out the mercy in his service! We are im-
ortunate to have him our friend in our necessities, and are ungrate-
careless of him, and his injuries he suffers by us or others.
When he hath discharged us from the rock where we stuck, we leave
, as having no more need of him, and able to do well enough
without him; as if were petty gods ourselves, and only wanted
a lift from him at first. This is not to glorify God as God, but as
our servant; not an noring of God, but a self-seeking: he would
hardly be at God’s door, if he could pleasure himself without him.
(3.) In begging his assistance to our own projects. When we lay
the lot of our own aifairs, and then come to God, not for counsel
but blessing, self only shall give us counsel how to act; but because
we believe there is a God that governs the world, we will desire him
to contribute success. God is not consulted with till the counsel of
self be fixed ; then God must be the executor of our will. Self must
be the principal, and God the instrument to hatch what we have
contrived. It is worse when we beg of God to favor some sinful
aim-; the Psalmist implies this ]SPsalm lxvi. `l8): “If I regard in-
iquity in my heart, the Lord wi not hear me.” Iniquity regarded
as the aim in prayer, renders the prayer successless, and the suppli~
ant an atheist, in debasing God to back his lust by his holy provi-
dence. The disciples had determined revenge; and because they
could not act it without their Master, they would have him be their
second in their vindictive passion (Luke ix. 55) : “ Call for fire from
heaven.” VVe scarce seek God till we have modelled the whole con-
trivance in our own brains, and resolved upon the methods of er-
formance; as though there were not a fulness of wisdom in God to
guide us in our resolves, as well as power to breathe success upon
t ern.
(4.) In impatience upon the refusal of our desires. How often do
men’s spirits rise against God, when he steps not in with the assist-
ance they wantl If the glory of God swayed more with them than
their private interest, they would let God be judge of his own glory,
and rather magnify his wisdom than complain of his want of good-
ness. Selfish hearts will charge God with neglect of them, if he _be

