,
on raacrrcn. Arrmrsu. ~ 158
PM as iiuiqk ix their supplies as they are in their desires; like those
m Isa. vili. 3, “ Where ore have we fasted, say the , and thou seest
not? wherefore have we aiiiicted our souls, andy thou takest no
l{!10'Wl8d{§a\;1?" When we aim at God’s glory in our importunities,
we shall down in humble submissions when he denies us ; whereas
self riseth up in bold expostulations, asif God were our servant,
andhad neg ected the service he owed us, not to come at our call.
We over-value the satisfactions of self above the honor of God. Be-
sidm, if what we desire be a sin, our im atience at a refusal is more
intolerable: it is an anger, that God   not lay aside his holiness
to serve our corruption.
(5.) In the actual aims men have in their .duties. In prayer for
temporal things, when we desire health for our own ease, wealth for
our own sensuality, strength for our revenge, children for the increase
of our family, gifts for our applause; as Simon Magus did the Holy
Ghost: or, when‘some of those ends are aimed at, this is to desire
God not to serve himself of us, but to be a servant to our worldly inf
terest, our vain glory, the greatening of our names, &c. In spiritual
mercies begged or; when pardon of sin is desired onl for our own
  from eternal vengeance; .sanctiiication desiredlbnly to make
'ns fit or everlasting blessedness; of conscience, only that we
may lead our lives more comfortagl in the world; when we have
not actual intentions for the lo oiy God, or when our thoughts of
God’s honor are overtop ed by ‘the aims of self-advantage: not but
that w God hath pressed us to those things by motives drawn from
the blessedness derivedto ourselves by them, so we may desire them
with a respect to ourselves ; but this respect must be contained Within
the due banks, in subordination to the glo of God, not above it,
nor in an equal balance with it.° That whilch is nourishing or medi-
cinal in the first or second degree, is in the fo1u~th or fifth degree
mere destructive poison. Let us consider it seriousl ; though a diuty
be heavenly, dot not some base end smut us in it; y [1.] How is it
with our confessions of sin? Are the _not more to procure our
pardon, than to shame ourselves before fired, or to be freed from the
chains that hinder us from brin ° g him the lory for which we were
created ; or more to rtake of  benefits, than to honor him in ac-
knowledging the Iigli); of his justice? Do we not bewail sin as it
hath ruined us, not as it d the holiness of God? Do we not
shntile with God, and co§ess one sin, While we reserve another; as
if we would allure God by declaring om' dislike of one, to give us
liberty to commit wantonness with another; not to abhor ourselves,
but to daub with God. [2.] Is it any better in our private and family
worship ? Are not such assemblies frequented by some, Where some
upon whom they have a de endence may eye them, and have a
better opinion o them, and agection to them? If God were the sole
end of' our hearts, would they not be as glowin under the sole eye
gfG0d, $5_0!1l‘ tongues or carriages are seemingly serious under t e
gye Ofman ? Are not family duties performe y some that their
voices may be heard, and their reputation supported among godly
M-_g;,,,°_= I f 31 Is not the charity of many men tainted with this
° Gurnall, Purt Ill. p. 887.

