1
154 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
Bhd-S€lf;P as the Pharisees were, while they set the m.serable object
before them, but not the Lord; bestowin alms not so much upon
the necessities of the people, as the iriendgiip we owe them for some
particular respects; or casting our bread upon those waters which
stream down in the si ht of the world, that our doles may be visible
to them, and commended by them; or when we think to oblige God
to pardon our transgressions, as if we merited it and heaven too at
his hands, by bestowing a few pence upon indigent persons? And
[4.] Is it not the same with the reproo of men? s not heat and
an er carried out with full sail when our worldly interest is prejudiced
and becalrned in the concerns of God? Do not many masters re-
prove their servants with more vehemency for the neglect of their
trade and business, than the neglect of divine duties; and that upon
religious arguments, pretending the honor of God that they may
mind their own interest? But when they are negligent in what
they owe to God, no noise is made, they pass without rebuke; is not
this to make God and religion a stale to their own ends? It is a.
part of atheism not to regard the injruies done to God, as Tiberius,‘l
“Let God’s wrongs be looked to or cared for by himselfl" [5.] Is
it not thus in our seeming zeal for religion? as Demetrius and the
craftsmen at Ephesus cried up aloud the greatness of Diana of the
E hesians, not out of any true zeal they had for her, but their gain,
which was increased by the confluence of her worshippers, and the
sale of her own shrines (Acts xix. 24, 28).
4. In making use of the name of God to countenance our sin.
When we set up an opinion that is a friend to our lusts, and then
Jig deep into the Scripture to find crutches to support it, and au-
uhurize our practices; when men will thank God for what they have
got by unlawful means, fathering the fruit of their cheating craft,
and the simplicity of their chapmen upon God; crediting their cozen-
age 'ry his name, as men do brass money, with a thin plate of silver,
and the stamp and ima e of the rince. The Jews urge the law of
God for the crucifyin his Son (fohn xix. 7% “ \Ve have a law, and
by that law he is to die,” and would make im a party in their pri-
vate revenge. Thus often when we have faltered in some actions,
we wipe our months, as if We sought God more than our own inter-
est, prostituting the sacred name and honor of God, either to hatch
or defend some unworthy lust against his word! Is not all this a
high degree of atheism?
1. It is a vilifying God, an abuse ofthe hi hest good. Other sins
subject the creature and outward things to them, but acting in reli-
gious services for self, subjects not only the highest concernments of
men’s souls, but the Creator himself to the creature, nay, to make
God contribute to that which is the pleasure of the devil, a greater
slight than to cast the gifts of a prince to a herd of nasty swine. It
were more excusable to serve oruselves of God upon the higher ac-
counts, such that materially cnnduce tu his glory; but it is an intol-
erable wrong to make him and his ordinances caterers for our own
bellies, as they didn' they sacrificed the nm: cf which the ofierer
r Mutt. vi. I. 1 Dei i'\j\:'~iw. Im- cur-aa.
' Sauderson's Sermons. Part II. p. 158. ' Hosea vin. li- ¥ _:L Coec. in locum.

