ON PRACTICAL ATHEISBL 155
might eat, not out of an reference to God, but love to their glut-
ton ; not to lease him, ibut feast themselves. The belly was truly
made the god: when God was served only in order to the belly; as
though the blessed God had his being, and his ordinances were en-
joined to pleasure their foolish and wanton appetites; as though the
work of God were only to patronize unrightcous ends, and be as bad
as themselves, and become a pander to their corrupt aifections.
2. Because it is a vilifying of God, it is an undeifying or dethron-
ing God. It is an acting as if we were the lords, and God our vassal;
a setting up those secular ends in the place of God, who ought to be
our ultimate end in every action; to whom a. glory is as due, as his
mercv to us is utterly unmerited by us. He that thinks to cheat and
put the fool upon God by his pretences, doth not heartily believe there
is such a being. He could not have the notion of a God, without
that of omniscience and justice; an eye to see the cheat, and an arm
to punish it. The notion of the one would direct him in the manner
of his services, and the sense of the other would scare him from the
cherishing his unworthy ends. He that serves God with a sole re-
spect to himself; is repared for any idolatr ; his religion shall warp
with the times andp his interest; he shall deny the true God for an
idol, when his worldly interest shall advise him to it, and pay the
same reverence to the basest image, which he pretends now to pay
to God; as the Israelites were as real for idolatry under their basest
princes, as they were pretenders to the true religion under those -that
were pious. Before I come to the use of this, give me leave to cvince
this practical atheism by two other considerations.
1. Unworthy imaginations of God. “The fool* hath said in his
heart., There is no God :” that is, he is not such a God as you report
him to be; this is meant by their being “ corrupt,” in the second
verse, corrupt being taken for playing the idolaters (Exod. xxxii. 7).
We cannot comprehend God; if we could, we should cease to be
finite; and because we cannot comprehend him, we erect strange
images of him in our fancies and aiiections. And since guilt came
upon us, because we cannot root out the notions of God, -we would
debase the majesty and nature _of God, that we may have some ease
in our consciences, and lie down with some comfort in the sparks of
our own kindling. This is universal in men by nature. “God is
not in all his thoughts;”* not in any of his thoughts, according the
excellenc of his nature and greatness of his majesty. As the heathen
did not glorify God as God, so neither do they conceive of God as
God; the are all infected with some one or other ill opinion of him,
thinking him not so holy, powerful, just, good, as he is, and as the
natural force of the human understanding might arrive to. We join
a new notion of God in our vain fancies, and represent him not as he
is, but as we would have him to be, fit for our own use,and suited to
our own pleasure. We set that active ower of imagination on
work, and there comes out a god (a calf) whom we own for a notion
of God. Adam cast him into so narrow a mould, as to think that
himself, who had newly sprouted up b his almighty power, was fit
to be his corrival in knowledge, andy had vain hopes to grasp al
* Psalm x. 4.

