156 cnamrocx ON rm: Arrnrnurm
much as iniiniteness; if he, in hisfirst declining, begun to have such
a conceit, it is no doubt but we have as bad under a mass of corrup-
tion. When holy Agur speaks of God, he cries out that he had not
“ the understanding of a. man, nor the knowledge of the holy ;”“ he
did not think rationally of God, as man might by his strength at his
first creation. There are as many carved images of God as there are
minds of men, and as monstrous shapes as those oorruptions into
which they would transform him. Hence sprang,
1. Idolatr . Vain imaginations first set afloat and kept up this
in the world. Vain imaginations of the God “ whose glory they
changed into the image of corruptible man.”= They had set up vain
images of him in their fancy, befbre they set upuiiolatrous re resen-
tations of him in their temples; the likening ` to those idols of
wood and stone, and various metals, were the fruit of an idea erected
in their own minds. This is a mighty debasing the Divine nature, and
renderin him no better than that base and stupid matter they make
the visible object of their adoration; equalling him with those base
creatures they think worthy to be the rplpreseutations of him. Yet
how far did this crime spread itself in corners of the world, not
onl among the more barbarous and ignorant, but the more polished
andy civilized nations! Judea only, where God had placed the ark
of his presence, being tree from it, in some intervals of time only
after some sweeping judgment. And thou h they vomited u their
idols under some sharp scourge, they licked, them up again agar the
heavens were cleared er their heads: the whole book of Judges
makes mention of it. Cféd though an evangelical light hath chased
that idolatry away from a great (part of the world, et the principle
remaining coins more spirit i ols in the heart, which are brought
before God in acts of worshi _
2. Hence all su erstition received its rise and lirowth. When we
mint a god according to our own complexion, l' e to us in mutable
and various passions, soon angry and soon appeased, it is -no wonder
that we invent ways of pleasing him after we have offended him,
and think to expiate the sin of our souls by some melancholy devo-
tions and self-ehastisements. S perstition is nothing else but an un-
scriptural and unrevealed drea of Go® When they imagined him
a rigorous and severe master, they east about for ways to mitigate
him whom they thought so hardto be pleased: a very mean thought
of him, as if a slight and pompous devotion could aseasil bribe and
Hatter him out of his rigors, as a few good words or baublving rattles
could please and uiet little children.; and whatsoever pleased us,
could please a God infinitel above us. Such narrow coneeits had
the Philistines, when they thought to still the anger of the God of
Israel, whom the thought they possessed in the ark, with the pres~
ent of a few oldbn mice.= All the superstition this day living in
the world is Tiuilt upon this foundation: so natural it is to man to
pull God down to his own imaginations, rather than raise his imagi-
nations u to God. Hence doth arise also the diilidence of his mercy
though they repent; measuring God by the contracted models of’
their own spirits; as though his nature were as didicult to pardon
° Prov. xxx. 2, 8. ' Rom. i. 21-23. I Aetaldaguovia. ° 1 Sum. vi. 8, 4.

