on rmcrrcn _urrmsrn 157
#gr offences against   as they are to remit wrongs done to them-
res.
3. Hence   all presum tion, the common disease of the
world. All e wickedness in the world, which is nothing else but
presuming upon God, .rises from the ill_ interpretations of the good-
uels of God, breaking out upon them m the works of creation and
pnzyidenge. The corruption of rgaugis l;_8tl1Il.‘€ engendczed by tliosp
no onso goodness a monstrous o vain imagma. ons; no o
themselves primaril , but of God; whence arose all that folly and
darkness in their minds and conversations (Rom. i. 20, 21). They
gloriiied him not as God, but, according to themselves,_1magine
him good that themselves mlght be bad; fancied him so indulgent,
as to neglect his own honor for their sensuality. How doth the un-
clmn person represent him to his own thoughts, but as a goat; the
murderer as a. tiger; the sensual person as a swme; while the ancy
a God indrilgent to their Iceriimes withlput their repentzinceal f Ellie
lmageontesealisstam upon ewaxso etougtso e
thgrabrct are printed _upon the _actio‘!i§) God’s patience is apprehended
an approbatmon of therr vices, and from the consideration of his
forbearance, they fashion a god that they believe will smile upon
their crimes §They imggine a. god that plays with the? and though
he threatens o _ rt o y to scare, but means not as e speaks. A
god they iimcy like themselves, that would do as. they would do,
not be angry for what they count a. liglht oifence (Psalm l. 21):
“ Thou thoughtest I was such a one as t yself;” that God and they
were exactly alike as two tallies. “ Our wiliill misa prehensions of
God are the cause of om' misbehavior in all his worship. Our slov-
enly and lazy services tell him to his face what slight thoughts and
apprehensions we have of him.”' Compare thwe two together.
Superstition ariseth from terrifying misapprehensions of Go : pre-
sumption from selilpleasing thoughts. One represents   only rig-
orous, and the other careless. One makes us over-oihcious in serv-
ing him by our own rules; and the other over-bold in offending him
according to our humors. The want of a true notion of God’s justice
makes some men slight him; and the want of a true apprehension
of his goodness makes others too servile in their approac es to him.
One makes us careless of duties, and the other makes us look on
them rather as “physic than food; an unsulpportable penance, than
a desiragehpri ' ege.ThIn this  hell is t I; lprincipied oi dluty per-
formed eaven. e supe ious man eves a. scarce
mercy   pardon, the presumptuous man believes he   no such
pegteeltirog as Justice to punislga Th?) one  lhrm 1I1S&gDlH1l§ia;1l‘|5_t0
It _ e %11‘8S,lC1.!1dI168SRIl _goo   _e _ erren ers 1n-
mgmiicant to what he fears, his vmdrctiire Justice. What between
the idolater, the superstitious, the presumptuous nperson, God should
lg; lilninpo   in the world. These unwo y imaginations of
' are emse,
2. A   of him. Debasing the Creator to be a creature of
their own fancies ;  their own stamp upon him; and fashion-
mg him not acco ` g to that beautilrhl image he impressed upon
° Gumal. Partll. pp. 245, 246.

