158 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
them by creation; but the defaced image they inherit b their fall,
and which is worse, the image of the devil which sprcadyitself over
them at their revolt and apostasy. Were it possible to see a picture
of God, according to the ancies of men, it would be the most mon-
strous being, such a God that never was, nor ever can be. \Ve honor
God when we have worthy opinions of him suitable to his nature;
when we conceive of him as a eing of unbounded lovelincss and per-
fection. We detract from him when we ascribe to him such qualities
as would be a horrible disgrace to a wise and good man as injustice
and impurity. Thus men debase God when they invert his order,
and would create him according to their image, as he first created
them according to his own ; and think him not worthy to be a God,
unless he fully answer the mould they would cast him into, and be
what is unworthy of his nature. Men do not conceive of God as he
would have them; but he must be what they would have him, one
of their own shapin .
1. This is worse Sian idolatry. The grossest idolater commits not
a crime so heinous, by changing his glory into the image of creepin
things and senseless creatures, as the imaginingJGod to be as one 0%
our sinful selves, and likening him to those filt y images we erect in
our fancies. One makes him an earthly God, like an earthly creature;
the other fancies him an unjust and impure God, like a wicked crea-
ture. One sets up an image of ,him in the earth, which is his foot-
stool; the other sets up an image of him in the heart, which ought
to be his throne.
2. It is worse than absolute atheism, or a denial of God. “Dignius
credimus non esse, quodcunqwe non ita fucrit, ut esse deberet,”\' was the
opinion of Tertullian. It is more commendable to think him not to
be, than to think him such a one as is inconsistent with his nature.
Better to deny his existence, than deny his perfection. No wise man
but would rather have his memory rot, than be accounted infamous,
and would be more obliged to him that should deny that ever he had
a bein in the world, t an to say he did indeed `ve, but he was a
sot, a <5-:bauched person, and a man not to be trusted. When we ap-
prehend God deceitful in his promises, unrighteous in his threaten-
ings, unwilling to pardon upon repentance, or resolved to pardon
notwithstanding impenitency: these are things either unworthy of
the nature of God, or contrary to that revelation he hath given of
himselfl Better for a man never to have been born than be forever
miserable; so better to be thought no God, than represented impo-
tent or negligent, unjust or deceittiil; which are more contrary to the
nature of God than hell can be to the greatest criminal. In this sense
perhaps the a stle affirms the Gentiles (Eph. ii. 12) to be such as are
“ without Godin the world ;” as being more atheists in adoring God
under such notions as they commonly did, than if they had acknowl-
edged no God at all.
3. This is evident by our natural desire to be distant from him,
and unwillingness to have an acquaintance with him. Sin set us Hrst
at a distance from God; any -every new act of gross sin estrangeth
us more from him, and indisposeth us more for him: it makes us
" Tertul. cont. Maxim. lib. i. cap. 2.

