ON PRACTICAL Amnrsir. 159
léoatlllix afrlaid gui ashamed to be pear him.7 Sensual men wire of this
e t at o disco' urseth of ch. xxi. -9, 14, 15 _ W ere ce
reigntsm the nearer Ito God the trlpore vigxorou}s the Ignition ;dthe niharer
an ` a roacestous atisteo'ecto our esires,the
mdite eaiferliypdo we press fdrward to it: but] our blood riscth at the
approaches of anything to which we have an aversion. We have
naturally a loathing of God’s coming to us or our return to him: we
seek not after hun as our happiness; and when he offers himself, we
like it not, but dput a disgrace upon him in choosing other thin
before him. Go and we are naturally at as eat a distance, as lighi
and darkness, life and death, heaven and helg The stronger impres-
sion of God anything hath, the more we fly from it. The glory of
God in reflection upon Moses’ face scared the Israelites; they who
had desired God to speak to them by Moses, when they saw a signal
impression of God u n his countenance, were afraid to come near
him, as they were belhore unwilling to come near to God.° Not that
the blessed God is in his own nature a frightful object; but our own
guilt renders him so to us, and ourselves indisposed to converse with
him; as the light of the sun is as irksome to a distempercd eye, as it
is in its own nature desirable to a sound one. The saints themselves
have had so much frailty, that they have cried out, that the were
undone, if they had any more than ordinary discoveries of made
unto them; as if they wished him more remote from them. V1 eness
cannot endure the lendor of majesty, nor guilt the glor o a _jud e.
We have naturzllly, 1. No desire of remembrance oty him, 2. r
converse with him, 3. Or thorough return to him, 4. Or close imita-
tion of him: as if there were not any such being as God in the world;
or as if we wished there were none at all; so feeble and spiritless are
our thoughts of the being of a God.
`1. No desire for the remembrance of him. How deli htful are
other things in our minds! How burdensome the memorizis of God,
from whom we have our being! With what leasure do we contem-
plate the nature of creatures, even of flies andp toads, while our minds
tire in the search of Him, who hath bestowed upon us our knowing
and meditating faculties! Though God shows himself to us in every
creature, in the meanest weed as well as the highest heavens, and is
more apparent in them to our reasons than themselves can be to our
sense; yet though we see them, we will not behold God in them: we
will view them to please our sense, to improve our reason in their
natural perfections; but ass by the consideration of God’s perfec-
tions so visibly beaming fliom them. Thus we lay the beasts and
atheists in the very exercise of reason, and neglect our Creator to
gratify our sense, as though the leasure of that were more desirable
than the knowledge of God. Tllie desire of our souls is not towards
his name and the remembrance of him,d when we set not ourselves
in a posture to feast our souls with deep and serious meditations of
him; have a thought of him, only by the bye and away, as if we
were afraid of too intimate uaintance with him. Are not the
thoughts of God rather our inzlalders than our ests; seldom invited
to reside and take up their home in our heartsglu Have we not, when
~Exod.xxxiv.so Ilmuvis.

