160 cmmvocx ON rin: A-rranaurrzs.
they have broke in upon us, bid them depart from us,° and warned
them to come no more u on our ground; sent them packin as soon
as we could, and were gliid when they were gone? And when they
have departed, have we not often been afraid they should return
again ugon us, and therefore looked about for other inmates, things
not goo , or if good, infinitely below God, to possess the room of our
hearts before any thoughts of him should appear again? Have we
not often been glad of excuses to shake off resent thoughts of him,
and when we have wanted real ones, found) out pretences to keep
God and our hearts at a distance? Is not this a part of atheism, to
be so unwilling to employ our faculties about the giver of them, to
refuse to egcercise them in a way of a grateful remembrance of him;
as though they were none of his gift, but our own acquisition ' as
though the God that truly gave them had no right to them, and he
that thinks on us every day in a wa of providence, were not worthy
to be thought on by us in a way of? special remembrance? Do not
the best, that love the remembrance of him, and abhor this natural
averseness, find, that when they would think of God, many things
tempt them and turn them to think elsewhere? Do they not find
their apprehensions too feeble, their motions too dull, and the im~
pressions too slight? This natmal atheism is spread over human
na.ture.
2. No desire of converse with him. The word “remember” in
the command for keeping holy the Sabbath-day, including all the
duties of the day, and the choicest of our lives, implies our natural
unwillingness to them, and forgetfulne  of them. God’s ressing
this command with more reasons than the rest, manifests tliat man
hath no heart for spiritual duties. No spiritual duty, which sets us
immediately face to face with God, but in the attempts of it we find
naturally a resistance from some owerful rinciple; so that every
one ma subscribe to the speech of? the apostle, that “when we would
do goocli evil is present with them." No reason of this can be ren-
dere 3, but the nat\u'al temper of our souls, and an affecting a distance
from God under any consideration: for though our guilt ‘first made
the breach, yet this aversion to a converse with him steps up without
any actual reflections u on our guilt, which may render God terrible
to us as an offended jug e. Are we not often also, in our attend-
ance upon him, more pleased with the modes of worship which
gratify our fancy, than to have our souls inwardly delighted with the
object of worship himself? This is a part of our natural atheism.
To cast such duties off by total neglect, or in art, by aH`ecting a
coldness in them, is to cast off the fear of the liordf Not to call
upon God, and not to know him, are one and the same thing (J er. x.
25). Either we think there is no such Being in the worl , or that
he is so slight a one, that he deserves not the reslpect he calls for;
or so impotent and poor, that he cannot supply W at our necessities
uire.
mg. No desire of a thorough return to him. The Brst man iled from
him after his defection, though he had no refuge to   to but the
grace of his Creator. Cain went from his presence, Wo d be a fugi-
° Jobxxii. 17 ‘ Job xv. ls

