ON rmcrrcn. arnntsu. 161
tive from rather than a su liant to him; when b faith in
and applica(1?i?5(d of the promised PEedeemer, he might hav; escaped
the wrath to come for his brother’s blood, and mi` ed the sor-
rows he was justly sentenced to bear in the world. thing will
separate prodigal man from commoning with swine; and make him
retum to his father, but an empg trough: have we but husks to
feed ou, we shall never think of a ther’s presegg? It were well if
our sores and indi ence would drive us to ; but when our
strength is devouref we will not “ retum to the Lord our God, nor
seek him for all this.”s Not his drawn sword, as a God of 'udgrnent,
nor his mighty power, as a Lord, nor his open arms, as the lord their
God, could move them to turn their eyes and their hearts towards
him. The more he invites us to partake of his grace, the further we
run tiom him to provoke his wrath: the louder God called them by
his prophets, the closer the stuck to their Baal.” We turn our
backs when he stretches out   hand, stop our ears when he lifts up
his voice. We Hy from him when he courts us, and shelter ourselves
in any bush from his merciful hand that would lay hold u n us;
nor will we set our faces towards him, till our way be hedged up
with thorns, and not a gap left to creep out any by-way! Whosoever
is brought to a return, puts the Holy Ghost to the pain of striving;
he is not easily brought to a spiritual subjection to God, nor persuaded
to a surrender at a summons, but sweetly ove wered by storm, and
victorious] drawn into the arms of God. Gdllixhtands ready, but the
heart stands off; grace is full of entreaties, and the soul full of ex-
cusos; Divine love oifers, and carnal self-love rejects. Nothing so
pleases us as when we are farthest from him; as if anything were
more amiable, anything more desirable, than himself
4. No desire o any close imitation of him. When our Saviour
was to come as a netiner’s ire, to purify the sons of Levi, the cry is,
“ Who shall abide the day of his coming ?” (Mal.   2, 3.) Since we
are alienated from the life of God, we desire no more natural] to
live the life of God, than a toad, or any other animal, desires tolive
the life of a man. No heart that knows God but hath a holy ambi-
tion to imitate him. No soul that refuseth him for a copy, but is
ignorant of his excellency. Of this temper is all mankind natumlly.
Man in corruption is as loth to be like God in holiness, as Adam, after
his creation, was desirous to be like God in knowledge; his posterity
are like their father, who soon turned his back upon his original
copy. What can be worse than this? Can the denial of his being
he a greater injury than this contempt of him; as if he had not
goodness to deserve our remembrance, nor amiableness fit for our
converse; as if he were not a Lord fit for our subjection, nor had a
holiness that deserved our imitation? For the use of this :-
Use I. It serves for information.
1. It gives us occasion to admire the wonderful patience and
mercy of God. How many millions of practical atheists breathe
every day in his air, and live upon his bount who deserve to be in-
habitants in hell, rather than possessors of tlie earthl An infinite
holiness is offended, an infinite justice is provoked; yet an infinite pa-
l Hoa. vii. 10. ‘ Hoe. xi. 2. ‘ Hoe. ii. 6, 7.
vox.. I.-1 1

