162 cmnnocx ON THE Ammsurss.
Lience forbears the punishment, and an infinite goodness relieves our
wants: the more we had merited his justice and forfeited his favor,
the more is his affection enhanced, which makes his hand so liberal
to us. At the drst invasion of his rights, he mitigates the terror of
the threatening which was set to defend his law, with the grace of 2
Egomise to relieve and recover his rebellious creature* Who would
to ve lookedtflpr ?nytl§i1;g but téerpging thugdtgrs, s\si?ping3j\;dg}in<i>]nts,
raze u e oun a ions o e apos wor u o ow
great are Ellis bowels to his aspiring competitors! Have we not ex-
perimented his contrivances for our good, though we have refused
im for our happiness? Has he not opened his arms, when we
spurned with our feet; held out his allurmg mercy, when we have
brandished against h1r;1da;ebell1ous sword? Has e not entreated
us while we have inv e him as if he were unwilling to low us,
who are ambitious to destroly olirselves? Has he yet denied us the
plare of hig prolyliéience, whi teewli haw; denifid hizm gmc iilghts of 
onor an wo appropria em curse ves as e sun or-
borneishining upon us, though we have shot our arrows against him?
Have not our beings been supported by his goodness, while we have
endeavored to climb up to his throne; and his mercies continued to
charm_us, while we have used them as weapons to injure him? Our own
necessities might exlpite us to pwn him as ourHhappmess, but he adids
his invitations to t e voice o our wants. as e not promise a
kingdom to those that would strip him or his crown, and proclaimed
p on upon re entance to those that would take away is glory?
and hath so twiisted together his own end, which is his honor, and
man’s1;:_rue§1;1d, which if his salxgatioln, that a maui céngpt tpuly ming
.h”“fi¢ b1“ina`§t°1Yp’$§“ G`$‘£°i`Ln§§ b§t’i’,`§s§h'Z“s`§me Zaii ‘§§§n§t`;S
himself and his_own_ happiness? so loth is God to give any just oc-
casion of dissatisfaction to his creature, as well as dishonor to him-
self All those wonders of his mercy are enhanced b the heinous-
ness of our atheism; a multitude of gracious thougiits from him
above the multitude of contempts from us.1 What rebels in actual
arms against their prince, aiming at his life, ever fbund that favor
from.him; to have all their necessaries richly aforded them, without
which they would starve, and without which they would be unable tg
manage their attempts, as we have received from God? Had not Go
had riches of goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering, and iniinite
riches too, the despite the world had done him, in refusing him as
their rule, happiness, and end, would have emptied him long ag<i%“‘
2. It brings in a `ustification of the exercise of his justice. it
gives us occasion loudly to praise his patience, it also stops our
mouths from accusing any acts of his vengeance. What can be too
f sllilarpla ripccgmpentze foir the déeipilping an;disgx-acing soigriat a. Beingli
_ e ig es con mp men egrea anger' an w en wew
1 not own him for our happiness, it is equal we shduld feel the misery
‘ of separation from him. If he that is guilty of treason deserves to
lose his life, what punishment can be thougmt great enough for him
that is so disingenuous as to prefer himself fore a God so infinitely
remains. 'ptumcvim -Homin.
I

