r ON riucrrcu. Arnsisn. 163
good, and so foolish as to invade the rights of one infinitely powerful?
tis no injustice for a creature to be forever left to himself; to see
what advantage he can make of that e was so busily employed
to mt up in the place of his Creator. T soul of man deserves an
infinite punishment for despising an in nite good; and it is not un-
equitable, that that self which man makes his rule and ha piness
shove God, should become his torment and misery by the righteous-
nm of that God whom he despi _
3. Hence ariseth a necessit o ew state and frame of soul, to
alter an atheistical nature. ide forget God; think of him with re-
luctancy; have no respect to God in our course and acts: this can~
not be our original state. God, being infinitely good, never let man
some out of his hands with this actual unwillingness to acknowledge
and serve him; he never intended to dethrone himself for the work
of his hands, or that the creature should have any other end than
that of his Creator: as the apostle saith, in the case of the Galatians’
error (Gal. v. 8), “ This persuasion came not of Him that called you ;”
so this frame comes not from him that created you: how much,
therefore, do we need a restoring rinciple in usl Instead of order-
ing ourselves according to the   of God, we are desirous to “ fulfil
the wills of the flesh :"“ there is a necessity of some other princi le
in us to make us fulfil the will of God, since we were created lior
God, not for the Hash. We can no more be voluntarily serviceable
to God, while our serpentine nature and devilish habits remain in
us, than we can suppose the devil can be willing to glorify God,
while the nature he contracted by his fall abides powerfully in him.
Our nature and will must be changed, that our actions may redggard
God as our end, that we may delightfully meditate on him, and aw
the motives of our obedience from him. Since this atheism is seated
in nature, the change must be in our nature; since our 'dist aspir-
ings to the rights o God were the fruits of the serpent’s breath which
tainted our nature, there must be a removal of this taint, whereby
our natures may be on the side of God against Satan, as they were
before on the side of Satan against God. There must be a super-
natural principle before we can live a supernatural life, 11. e. live to
God, since we are natiualév alienated from the life of God: the aver-
don of our natures from od, is as strong as our inclination to evil ;
we are disgusted with one, and pressed with the other; we have no
will, no heart, to come to God in an service. This nature must be
broken in pieces and new mouldecf before we can make God our
rule and our end: while menls “deeds are evil” the cannot comply
with God ;° much less while their natures are evil.   this be done,
all the service a man performs riseth from some “evil imagination
ofthe heart, which is evil, only evil, and that continually; P from
wrong notions of God, wrong notions of duty, or corrupt motives.
All the pretences of devotion to God are but the adoration of some
golden image. Pra ers to God for the ends of self, are like those
ofthe devil to our gaviour, when he asked leave to go into the herd
of swine: the object was right, Christ; the end was the destruction
of the swine, and the satisfaction of their malice to the owners; there
° Eph. ii. 8. ‘ John   19, 20. I Gen. vi. 5.

