164 c11.u¢NJcx ON THE A'rrn1BU'r1-ns.
is a necessit then that depraved ends should be removed, that that
which was gods end in our framing, may be our end in our acting,
viz. his glory, which cannot be without a change of nature. WVe can
never honor him supremel whom we do not supremelg' love; till
this be, we cannot g orify god as God, though we do t ings by his
command and order; no more, than when God em(ployed the devil
in afiiicting Jobs His performance cannot be sai to be good, be-
cause his end was not the same with God’s; he acted out of malice,
what God commanded out of sovereignty, and for gracious designs;
had God employed an holy angel in his design upon Job, the action
had been good in the affliction, because his nature was holy, and
therefore his ends holy; but bad in the devil, because his ends were
base and unworthy.
4. We may gather from hence, the difficulty of conversion, and
mortification to follow thereupon. V5/'hat is the reason men receive
no more impression from the voice of God and the light of his truth,
than a dead man in the grave doth from the roaring thunder, or a
blind mole from the light of the sun? It is because our atheism is
as great as the deadness of the one, or the blindness of the other
The principle in the heart is strong to shut the door both of the
thoughts and affections against God. If a friend oblige us, we shall
act for him as for ourselves; we are won 'by entreaties; soft words
overcome us; but our hearts are as deaf as the hardest rock at the
call of God; neither the joys of heaven proposed by him can allure
as, nor the flashed terrors of hell affright us to him, as if we conceived
God imable to bestow the one or execute the other: the true reason
is, God and self contest for the deity. 'I‘he law of sin is, God must
be at the footstool; the law of God is, sin must be utterly deposed.
Now it is difficult to leave a law beloved for a law long ago discard-
ed. The mind of man will hunt after anything; the will of man
embrace anything: upon the proposal of mean objects the spirit of
man spreads its wings, ilies to catch them, becomes one with them:
but attempt to bring it under the power of God, the wings flag, the
creature looks lifeless, as though t ere were no spring of motion in
it; it is as much crucified to God, as the holy apostle was to the
world. The sin of the heart discovers its strength the more God
discovers the “ holiness of his will.”f The love of sin hath been pre-
dominant in our nature, has quashed a love to God, if not extinguish-
ed it. Hence also is the difficulty of mortification. This is a work
tending to the honor of God, the abasing of that inordinately as-
piring humor in ourselves. If the nature of man be inclined to sin,
.as it is, it must needs be bent against anything that opposes it. It is
impossible to strike any true blow at any lust till the true sense of
God be re-entertained in the soil where it ought to grow. Who can
be naturally willing to crucify what is incorporated with him-his
flesh ? what is dearest to him-himself? Is it an easy thing for
man, the competitor with God, to turn his arms against himself; that
self should overthrow its own empire, lay aside al its peretensions to,
and designs for, a godhead; to hew 011' its own mem rs, and sub-
due its own affections? It is the nature of man to “cover his sin,"
Q Job i. ' Rom. vii. 9-12.

