ON raicrrcu. Arnsrsn. 165
ta hide it in his bosoxn,' not to destroy it; and as unwillingly part
with his carnal affections, as the legion of devils were with the man
that had been long possessed; and when he is forced and fired from
one, he will endeavor to espouse some other lust, as those devils de-
sired to po  swine, when they were chased from their possession
of that man.
5. Here we see the reason of unbelief That which hath most of
God in it, meets with most aversion from us; that which hath least
of God, finds better and stronger inclinations in us. What is the
reason that the heart of man is more unwillin to embrace the' gos~
pel, than acknowledge the equity of the law? iecause there is more
of God’s nature and perfection evident in the gospel than in the law;
besides, there is more reliance on God, and distance from self, com-
manded in the gospel. The law puts a man upon his own strength,
the gos 1 takes him off from his own bottom ; the law acknowledges
him to hive a power in himself, and to act for his own reward; the
gospel strips him of all his proud and towering thoughts,¢ brings
him to his due place, the foot of God; orders him to deny himself
as his own rule, righteousness, and end, “ and henceforth not to live
to himsel£"“ This is the true reason why men are more against the
gospel than against the law; because it doth more deify God, and
ebase man. Hence it is easier to reduce men to some moral virtue
than to faith; to make men blush at their outward vices, but not at
the inward impurity of their natures. Hence it is observed, that
those that asserted that all ha iness did arise from something in a
man’s self, as the Stoics and xlilipiclueans did, and that a wise man
was equal with God, were greater enemies to the truths of the gospel
than others (Acts xvii. 18% because it lays the axe to the root of
their rincipal opinion, ta 'es the one from their selfsuiiiciency, and
the o£|er from t eir self-gratification; it opposeth the brutish prin-
ciple of the one, which placed happiness in the pleasures of the body,
and the more noble principle of e other, which laced happiness
in the virtue of the mind; the one was for a sensual: the other for a
moral self; both disowned by the doctrine of the gospel.
6. It informs us, consequently, who can be the Author of grace
and conversion, and every other good work. No practical atheist
ever yet turned to God, but was turned by God ; and not to acknowl-
edge it to God is a part of this atheism, since it is a robbing God of
the honor of one of hismost glorious works. If this practical atheism
be natural to man ever since the first taint of nature in Paradise,
what can be expected from it, but a resisting of the work of God,
and setting up all the forces of nature against the operations of grace,
till a day of power dawn and clear up upon the soul ?== Not all the
angels in heaven, or men upon earth, can be imagined to be able to
persuade a man to fall out with himself; nothing can turn the tide
of nature, but a power above nature. God took awa the sanctify-
' Spirit from man, as a penalty for the first sin; who can regain
iiliut by his will and pleasure? who can restore it, but`he that re-
moved it? Since every man hath the same fundamental atheism
I Job xxxi. 83. “ If I cover my transgressions as Adam.”
*2Cor.x.5. '2Cor.v.1b. ' Psa1mox.8.

