166 cnamrocx ON 'run Arrnmnras
in him by nature, and would be a rule to himself and his own
end, he is so far from dethroning himself, that all the strength
of his corrupted nature is alarmed up to stand to their ‘arms
upon any attempt God makes to regain the fort. The will is so
strong against God, that it is like many wills twisted together (Eph.
ii. 3), “ Wills of the flesh ;” we translate it the “ desires of the flesh ;"
like many threads twisted in a cable, never to be snapped asunder
by a human arm; a power and will above ours, can only untwist so
many wills in a knot. Man cannot rise to an acknow edgment of
God without God; hell may as well become heaven, the devil be
changed into an angel of light. '1‘he devil cannot but desire hap i-
ness; he knows the misery into which he is fallen, he cannot be d)e-
sirous of that punishment he knows is reserved for him. Why doth
he not sanctify God, and glorify his Creator, wherein there is abun-
dantly more pleasure than in his malicious course? VVhy doth he
not petition to recover his ancient standing? he will not ; there are
chains of darkness upon his faculties ; he will not be otherwise than
he is; his desire to be god of the world sways him against his own
interest, and out of love to his malice, he will not sin at a less rate
to make a diminution of his punishment. Man, if God utterly re-
fuseth to work upon him, is no better; and to maintain his atheism
would venture'a hell. How is it possible for a man to turn himself
to that God against whom he hath a qua1'rel in his nature ; the most
rooted and settled habit in, him being to set himself in the place of
God? An atheist b nature can no more alter his own temper, and
engrave in himself the divine nature, than a rock can carve itself
into the statue of a man, or a serpent that is an enemy to man could
or would raise itself to the nobility of the human nature. That soul
that by nature would strip God of his rights, cannot, without a divine
power, be made conformable to him, and acknowledge sincerely and
cordiall the ri hts and glory of God. `
7. uri; may here seo the reason why there can be no justification
by the best and strongest works of nature. 'Can that which hath
atheism at the root justif either the action or person? What
strength can those works have which have neither God’s law for
their rule, nor his glory for their end? that are not wrought by any
spiritual strength rom him, nor tend with any spiritual affection to
him? Can these be a foundation for the most holy God to pronounce
a creature righteous? They will justify his justice in condemning,
but cannot sway his justice to an absolution. Every natural man in
his works picks and chooses; he owns the will of God no further
than he can wring it to suit the law of his members, and minds not
the honor of God, but as it _jostles not with his own glory and secular
ends. Can he be righteous that prefers his own will and his own
honor before the will and honor of the Creator? However men’s
actions may be beneficial to others, what reason hath God to esteem
them, wherein there is no res ct to him, but themselves; whereby
they dethrone him in then' thfughts, while they seem to own him
in their religious works? Ever day reproves us with something
different from the rule; thousand; of wanderings offer themselves to

