ON PRACTICAL ATHEIBH. 167
our eyes  dean justification be expected from that which in itself is
matter o es air ‘
8. See hen? the cause of all the apostasy in the world. Practical
atheism was never conquered in such; they are still “alienated from
the life of God,” and will not live to God, as he lives to himself and
hisown honor.Y They loathe his rule, and distaste his glory; are
loth to step out of themselves to promote the ends of another; find
not the satisfaction in him as they do in themselves; they will be
judges of what is ood for them and righteous in itself, rather than
admit of God to ju§ge for them. When men draw back from truth
to error, it is to such opinions which may serve more to foment and
cherish their ambition, covetousness, or some beloved lust that dis-
putes with God for precedency, and is designed to be served before
im (John   42, 43): “They love the praise of men more than the
praise of God.” A preferring man before God was the reason they
would not confess Christ, and God in him.
9. This shows us the excellenc ofthe gos el and christian religion.
It sets man in his due place, andy gives 'to god what the excellency
of his nature requires. It lavs man in the dust from whence he was
taken, and sets God upon that throne where he ought to sit. Man
by nature would annihilate God and deify himself; the gospel glori-
[ies God and annihilates man. In our first revolt we would be like
him in knowledge; in the means he hath provided for our recovery,
he designs to make us like him in grace; the gospel shows ourselves
to be an obj f humiliation, and God to be a glorious object for
our imitation. iThe light of nature tells us there is a God; the gospel
gives us a more magnificent report of him; the light of nature con-
emns gross atheism, and that of th ospel condemns and conquers
spigtual atgeismhin the hearts of men.
he II. f ex ortation.
First, Let us labor to be sensible of this atheism in our nature, and
be humbled for it. How should we lie in the dust, and go bowing
under the humbling thoughts of it all our days! Shall we not be
sensible of that whereby we spill the blood of our souls, and give a
stab to the heart of our own salvation? Shall we be worse than an
creature, not to bevrail that which tends to our destruction? H;
that doth not lament it, cannot challenge the character of a Christian,
hath nothing of the divine life and love planted in his soul. Not a
man but shall one day be sensible, when the eternal God shall call
him out to examination, and charge his conscience to discover every
crime, which will then own the authority whereby it acted; when
the heart shall be torn open, and the secrets of it brought to public
view; and the world and man himself shall see what a vi erous
brood of corrupt principles and ends nested in his heart. fist us,
therefore, be trulg sensible of it, till the consideration draw tears
from our eyes an sorrow from our souls; let us urge the thoughts
of it upon our hearts till the core of that ride be eaten out, and our
ltubbornness changed into humilit ; till) our heads become waters,
and our eyes fountains of tears, andybe a. spring of prayer to God
to change the heart, and mortify the atheism in it; and consider
1 Eph. iv. lt, 18.

