1
168 cnamrocx' ON rm: ATTRIBUTES.
what a?swd thing it is to be a practical atheist: and who is not so by
nature
1. Let us be sensible of it in ourselves. Have any of our hearts
been a soil wherein the fear and reverence of God hath naturally
grown? Have we a desire to know him, or a will to embrace him ?
o we delight in his will, and love the remembrance of his name?
Are our res ects to him, as God, equal to the speculative knowledge
we have of his nature? Is the heart, wherein he hath stamped his
image, reserved for his residence? Is not the world more affected
than the Creator of the world; as though that could contribute to us
a greater happiness than the Author of it? Have not creatures as
much of our ove, fear, trust, nay, more, than God that framed both
them and us? Have we not too often relied upon our own strength,
and made a calf of our own wisdom, and said of God, as the Israelites
of Moses, “As for this Moses we wot not what is become of him?"
(Exod. xxxii. 1) and given oftener the lory of our good success to
our drag and our net, to our craft and our industry, than to the
wisdom and blessing of God? Are we, then, free from this sort,of
atheism»?1 It is as impossible to have two Gods at one time in one
heart, as to have two kings at one time in full ower in one kingdom.
Have there not been frequent neglects of Godl? Have we not been
deaf whilst he hath knocked at our doors? slept when he hath sounded
in our ears, as if there had been no such being as a God in the world?
How many strugglings have been against our approaches to him!
Hath not folly often been committed, with vain imaginations starting
up in the time of religious service, which we would scarce vouclisafe
a ook to at another time, and in another business, but would have
thrust them away with indignation? Had they stcpt in to interrupt
our worldly affairs, the would have been troublesome intruders;
but while we are with Glod they are acceptable guests. How unwil-
lin have our hearts been to fortify themselves with strong and
infirencing considerations of God, before we addressed to him! Is
it not too often that our lifelessness in prayer proceeds from this
atheism; a neglect of' seeing what arguments and pleas may be drawn
from the divine perfections, to second our suit in hand, and quicken
our hearts in the service? Vlfhence are those indispositions to any
spiritual duty, but because we have not due thoughts of the majesty,
holiness, goodness, and excellcncy of God? Is there any duty which
leads to a more articular inquiry after him, or a more clear vision
of him, but our hearts have been ready to rise up and call it cursed
rather than blessed? Are not our minds bemisted with an ignorance
of him, our wills drawn by aversion from him, our affections rising
in distaste of him? more willing to know anything than his nature,
and more industrious to do anything than his will? Do we not all
fall under some one or other of these considerations? Is it not fit,
then, that we should have a sense of them? It is to be ,bewailed by
us, that so little of God is in our hearts, when so man evidences of
the love of God are in the creatures; that God should be so little our
end, who hath been so much our benefactor; that he should be so
' Lawson’s Body of Divinity, pp. 153, 164.

