ON rnacrrcan arnsrsir. 169
little in our thoughts, who sparkles in everything which presents
itself to our eyes.
2. Let us be sensible of it in others. We o ht to have a just exe-
cration of the too open iniquity in the midst SF us; and imitate holy
David, whose tears lentifully gushed out, “because men kept not
God's law." = Andp is it not a time to exercise this pious lamenta-
tion? Hath the wicked atheism of any age been eater, or can
You find worse in hell, than we ma hear of and beibld on earth?
llow is the excellent Ma`esty of Godywdored by the angels in heaven,
despised and reproachecl by men on earth, as if his name were pub-
lished to be matter of their sport! What a gasping thing is a natu-
ral sense of God among men in the world! Is not the law of God,
accompanied with such dreadful threatenings and muses, made light
ot] as if men would place their honor in being above or beyond any
sense of that glorious Majesty? How many wallow in pleasures, as
if they had been made men only to turn brutes, and their souls given
them only for salt, to keep their bodies from putrefying? It is as
well a part of atheism not to be sensible of the abuses of God’s name
and laws by others, as to violate them ourselves: what is the lan-
guage of a stupid senselessness of them, but that there is no God in
the world whose glory is worth a vindication, and deserves our
regards? That we may be sensible of the lmworthiness of neglect-
ing God as our rule and end, consider,
1. The unreasonableness of it as it concerns God.
lst. It is a high contem t of God. It is an inverting the order
of things; a making God) the highest to become the lowest; and
self the lowest to become the highest: to be guided by every base
companion., some idle vanity, some carnal interest, is to acknowledge
an excellency abounding ln them which is wanting in God; an
equity in their orders, and none in God’sI-fprecepts; a goodness in
their promises, and a falsi? in God’s; as ` infinite excellency were
a mere vanity, and to act or God were the debasement of our rea-
son; to act or self or some pitiful creature, or sordid lust, were the
lory and advancement of rt. To prefer any one sin before the
honor of God, is as if that sin had been om' creator and benefactor, as
if it were the original cause of our being and sugport. Do not men
psyas great a homage to that as they do to od? Do not their
mmds eagerly dpursue lt? Are not the revolvings of it, in their fan-
eia, as deligh ul to them as the remembrance of God to a. holy soul?
Do any obey the commands of God with more readiness than they
do the orders of their base affeqaions? Did Peter leap more readily
into the sea to meet his Master, than many into the Jaws of hell to
meet their Dalilahs? How cheerfull did the Israelites part with
their ornaments for the sake of an idol; who would not have (spared
a moiety for the honor of their Delivererl " If to make G our
end is t e principal duty in nat\u°e, then to make ourselves, or any-
thin else, our end, is t e eatest vice in the rank of evils.
al It is a. contempt of god as the most amiable object. God is
infinitely excellent and desirable (Zech. ix. 17): “How great is his
' Psalm cxix. 188. _ '
* Exod. xxxii. 8,-“ All the people brake oil' the golden ear-rings."

