170 cmnnocx ON THE Arrnmurns.
goodness, and how great is his beauty l” There is nothing in him
ut what may ravish our affections; none that knows him but finds
attractives to keep them with liim; He hath nothing in him which
can be a proper object of contempt, no defects or shadow of evil;
there is infinite excellenc to charm us, and infinite goodness to
allure us,-the Author oi? our being, the Benefactor of our lives.
Why then should man, which is his image, be so base as to slight
the beautiful Original which stamped it on him? He is the most
lovely object; therefore to be studied, therefore to be honored,
therefore to be followed. In regard of his perfection he hath the
highest right to our thoughts. All other bein were eminently
contained in his essence, and were produced byliis infinite power.
The creature hath nothing but what it hath from God. And is it
not imworthy to prefer the copi before the original-to fall in love
with a picture, instead of the eaut it represents? The creature
which we advance to be our rule and’ end, can no more report to us
the true amiableness of God, than a few colors mixed and suited
together upon a piece of cloth, can the moral and intellectual loveli-
ness of the soul of man. To contemn God one moment is more
base than if all creatures were contemned by us forever; because
the excellency of creatures is, to God, like that of a drop to the sea,
or a spark to the glory of unconceivable millions of suns. As much
as the excellency of God is above our conceptions, so much doth
the debasing of him admit of unexpressible aggravations..
2. Consider the ingratitude in it. That we should resist that God
with our hearts who made us the work of his hands, and count him
as nothing, from whom we derive all the good that we are or have.
There is no contempt of man but steps in here to aggravate our
slighting of God; because there is no relation one man can stand in
to another, wherein God doth not more highly ap ear to man. If
we abhor the unworthy carriage of a child to a tenger father, a ser-
vant to an indulgent master, a man to his obliging friend, wh do
men daily act that toward God which they cannot speak of without
abhorrency, if acted by another against man? Is God a being less
to be regarded than man, and more worthy of contempt than a crea-
ture?-“ It would be strange if a benefactor should live in the same
town, in the same house with us, and we never exchange a word
with him; yet this is our case, who have the works of God in our
eyes, the goodness of God in our being, the mercy of God in our
daily food” C-yet think so little of him, converse so little with him,
serve everything before him, and prefer everything above him P
Whence have we our mercies but from his hand? Who, besides
him, maintains our breath this moment? Would he call for our
¥)ll'l`l3S this moment, they must depart from us to attend his command.
here is not a moment wherein our unworthy carriage is not aggra-
vated, because there is not a moment wherein he is not our nar-
dian, and gives us not tastes of a fresh bounty. And it is no light
aggravation of our crime, that we injlue him without whose bounty,
ln giving us our being, we had not been capable of casting contempt
upon him: that he that hath the greatest stamp of his image, man,
° Reynolds.

