ON PRACTICAL Arnarsu. 171
should deserve the character of the worst of his rebels: that he who
hath only reason b the gift of God to judge of the equity of the
laws of God, should swell against them as grievous, and the govern-
ment of the Lawgiver as burdensome. Can it lessen the crime to
use the princi le wherein we excel the beasts to the disadvantage of
God, who encfbwed us with that princi le above the beasts?
l. It is a debasin of God beyond what the devil doth at present.
He is more excusabi: in his resent state of acting, than man is in
léisxresent refusing God for   rule and end. He strives against a
that exerciset upon him a vindictive justice; we debase a God
that loads us with his daily mercies. The despairing devils are
excluded from any mercy or divine patience; but we are not only
under the long-suffering of his patience, but the large expressions
of his bounty. He would not be governed b him when he was
onl his bountiful Creator: we refuse to be guided by him after he
hath given us the blessing of creation from his own hand, and the
more obliging blessings of redemption by the hand and blood of his
Son. It cannot be imagined that the devils and the damned should
ever make God their end, since he hath assured them he will
not be their happiness; and shut up all his perfections from their
experimental notice, but those of his power to preserve them, and
his justice to punish them. They have no grant from God of ever
having a heart to com ly with his will, or ever having the honor to
be actively employed £>r his glory. They have some plea for their
present contempt of God, not in regard of his nature, for he is infi-
nitely amiable, excellent and lovely, but in regard of his administra-
tion toward them. But what plea can man have for his practical
atheism, who lives by his wer, is sustained by his bounty, and
solicited by his Spirit? Vyiht an ungrateful thing is it to put off
thedpatgirelpg man fgr tlizt of devils, and dishonor God under mercy,
as e ev' do un er ° wrathful an erl
2. It is an ungrateful contempt of god, who cannot be injurious
to ns. He cannot do us wron , because he cannot be unjust (Gen.
xviii. 25): “Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right ?” His
nature doth as much abhor unrighteousness, as love a communica-
tive goodness: he never commanded anything but what was highly
eonducible to the happiness of man. Infinite goodness can no more
inj1u°e man than it can dishonor itself: it lays out itself in additions
ofdkindness, and whiilsuwe éiebase hixg, he. continues Ito llgenent us;
an isitnotanun ele in tituetoturnour acsu nan
object so lovely, 311; object so gdaving, in the midst of varieiioes of
allurements from him? God did create intellectual creatures, angels
and men, that he might communicate more of himself and his own
goodness and holiness to man, than creatures of a lower rank were
capable oi What do we do, by rejecting him as om' rule and end,
but crom, as much as in us lies, God’s en in our creation, and shut
our souls   the communications of those perfections he was so
willing to estow? We use him as if he intended us the greatest
Wrong, when it is impossible for him to do any to any of his crea-
tures.
3. Consider the misery which will attend such a temper if it con-

