172 cniunrocx ON rim Arrnmurns.
tinue predominant. Those that thrust God away as their happiness
and end, can expect no other but to be thrust away by him, as to
any relief and compassion. A distance from God here can look for
nothing, but a remoteness from God hereafter. When the devil, a
creature of vast endowments, would advance himself above God, and
instruct man to commit the same sin, he is “cursed above all crea-
tures.”~* When we will not acknowledge him a God of all glory, we
shall be separated from him as a God of all comfort: “ All they that
are afar off shall perish” (Psalm lxxiii. 27). This is the spring of
all woe. What the Prodigal s d, was because he wo d leave
his father, and live of himself osoever is ambitious be his
own heaven, will at last ind his soul to become its own hell As it
loved all things for itself, so it shall be grieved with ings for
itself As it would be its own god against the right of God, it shall
then be its own tolmentor by the justice of God.
Secondly, Watch against this atheism, and be daily employed in
the mortiiication of it. In every action we sh d make the inquiry,
What is the rule I observe? Is it God’s will o my own? Whether
do my intentions tend to set up God or self? As much as we destroy
this, we abate the power of sin: these two things are the head of the
serpent in us, which we must be bruising by the power of the cross.
Sin is nothing else but a turnin from God, and centering in self, and
most in the inferior art of selé if we bend our force against those
two, self-will and seliflends, we shall intercept atheism at the spring
head, take away that which doth constitute and animate all sin: the
slpilarks must vanish if the fire be quenched which affords them fuel.
ey are but two short thin to ask in every undertakingl: Is God
my rule in regard of his will gs Is God my en in regard of is glory ?
A l sin lies in the neglect of these, all grace lies in the practice of
them. Without some degree of the mortification of these; we can-
not make proitable and comfortable approaches to God. When we
come with idols in our hearts, we shall be answered according to the
multitude and the baseness of them too.° What expectation of a
good look from him can we have, when we come before him with
undeifying thoughts of him, a etition in our mouths, and a sword
in our hearts, to stab his honorl? To this purpose,
1. Be often in the views of the excellencies of God. When We
have no intercourse with God by delightful meditations, we begin to
be estran ed from him, and repare ourselves to live without God in
the worlng @rangeness is the mother and nurse of disaifection: we
sli ht men sometimes because -we know them 1552> The very beasts
dehght in the company of men; when being ta d and familiar,
the become acquainted with their disposition. A daily converse
with God would discover so much of loveliness in°h nature, so much
of sweetness in his wa_ s, that our injiuious thoughts of God would
wear oii, a d we should count it our honor to contemn ourselves and
magnify him. By this means a slavish fear, which is both a dishonor
to God an torment to the soul,f and the root of atheism, will be
cast out, and an in enuous fear of him wrought in the heart. Exer~
cised thoughts on   would issue out in aifections to him, which
- I Gen. iii. 14. ° Ezek. xiv.-1. f 1 John iv. 18.

