on PRACTICAL Arssrsu. 173
Would engage our hearts to make him both our rule and our end.
This course would stjhe any temptations to gross atheism, wherewith
and souls are sometimes haunted, by confirming us more in the
lie( of a God, and discourage any attempts to a deliberate practical
atheism. We are not like to espouse any principle which is confuted
by the delightful converse we daily have with him. The more we
thus enter into the presence chamber of God, the more we cling
about him with our affections, the more vigorous and lively will the
true notion of God grow up in us, and be able to prevent anything
which may dishonor him and debase our souls. Let us therefore con-
sider him as the only happiness; set up the true God in our under-
standings; possess our hearts with a deeg sense of his desirable ex-
cellency above all other things. This is t e main thing we are to do
in order to our great business: all the directions in the world, with
the neglect of this, will be insignificant ciphers. The neglect of this
is common, and is the basis of all the mischiefs which happen to the
souls of men.
2. Prize and study the Scripture. We can have no delight in
meditation on him, unless we know him; and we cannot know him
but by the means of his own revelation; whe the revelation is
despised, the revealer will be of little esteem. Qllen do not throw
of God from being their rule, till the throw of? Scripture from
being their guide; and God must neemg be cast off m being an
end, when the Scripture is rejected from being a rule. Those that
do not care to know his will, that love to be ignoran of his nature,
can never be affected to his honor. Let therefore the subtleties of
reason veil to the doctrine of faith, and the humor of the will to the
command of the word.
3. Take heed of sensual pleasures, and be very watchful and
cautious in the use of those comforts God allows us. Job was afraid,
when his “ sons feasted, that they should curse God in their hearts.”s`
It was not without cause that the apostle Peter joined sobriety with
watchihlnem and prayer (1 Pet. iv. 7): “The end of all things is at
hand; be ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer.”--A moderate
use of worldly comforts.-Prayer is the great acknowledgment of
God, and too much sensuality is a hindrance of this, and a step to
atheism. Belshazzar’s lifting himself up against the Lord, and not
gan-ihing of God; is charged upon his sensuality (Dan. v. 23).
othing is more apt to quench the notions of God, and root out the
conscience of him, than an addictedness to sensual pleasures. There-
fore take heed of that snare.
4. Take heed of sins `nst knowledge. The more sins against
knowledge are committefiialhe more careless we are, and the more
czrelw we shall be of God and his honor; we shall more fear°his
  power; and the more we fear'that,-the more we shall dis-
affect God in whose hand vengeance is, and to whom it doth
belong theisni in conversation proceeds to atheism in affection and
:Im will endeavor to sink into at eism in opinion and judgme t.
]Z¢ _,um Qf #ze whole.-And now consider in the whole what
been spoken.
l Job i. 4.

