174 c1uRNocK ON THE Arrarsnrss.
1. Man would set himself up as his own rule. He disowns the
rule of God, is unwilling to have any acquaintance with the rule God
sets him, negligent in using the means for the knowledge of his will,
and endeavors to shake it off when any notices of it break in u n
him; when he cannot expel it, he hath no leasure in the consiggr-
ation of it, and the heart swells against it. €Vhen the notions of the
will of God are entertained, it is on some other consideration, or
with wavering and unsettled affections. Many times men design to
improve some lust by his truth. This unwillingness res cts truth
as it is most spiritual and holy; as it most relates and lead; to God ;
as it is most contrary to selfl He is guilty of contem t of the will of
God, which is seen in every presumptuous breach 0? his law; in the
natural aversions to the declaration of his will and mind, which way
soever he turns; in slighting that part 'of his will which is most for
his honor; in the awkwardness ofthe heart when it is to pay God a
service. A constraint in the first engagement, slightness in the ser-
vice, in regard of the matter, in regard of the frame, without a.
natural vigor. Many distractions, much weariness, in deserting the
rule of God, when our expectations are not answered upon our ser-
vice, in breaking promises with God. Man naturally owns any other
rule rather than that of God’s prescribing: the rule of Satan; the will
of man; in complying more with the dictates of men than the will
of God; in observing that which is materially so, not because it is
his will, but the injunctions of men; in obeying the will of man
when it is contrary to the will of God. This man doth in order to
the setting up himselfl This is natural to man as he is corrupted.
Men are dissatisfied with their own consciences when they contradict
the desires of selfl Most actions in the world are done, more because
they are agreeable to self, than as they are honorable to God; as they
are agreea le to nat1u‘al and moral self; or sinful sel£ It is evident
in neglects of taking God’s directions upon emergent occasions; in
counting the actions of others to be good or bad, as they suit
with, or spurn against our fancies and humors. Man would make
himself the rule of God, and give laws to his Creator, in striving
against his law; disapproving of his methods of government in the
world; in impatience in om' particular concerns; envying thegiits
and prosperity of others; corrupt matter or ends of prayer or praise;
bold interpretations of the jud ents of God in the world; mixing
rules in the worship of God witlinihose which have been ordained by
him; suiting integpretations of Scripture with our own minds and
humors; falling o from God aiier some fair cornpliances, when his
will grates upon us, and crosseth ours. s
2. Man would be his own end. This is natural and universal.
This is seen in frequent selflapplauses and inward overweening
reflections; in ascribing the ‘glory of what we do or have to our-
selves; in desire of seltlpleasing doctrines; in being highly concerned
in injuries done to ourselves, and little or not at all concerned for
injuries done to God; in trusting in oluselves; in workings for car-
nal-self against the light of our own consciences: this is a usurping
God’s prerogative, vilifying God, destroying God. Man would make
anything his end or happiness rather than God. This appears in the

