DISCOURSE III.
ON GOD’S BEING A SPIRIT.
Joni! iv. 24s-God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit
and in truth.
THE words are part of the dialogue between our Saviour and the
Samaritan woman.” Christ, inten ing to return from J udea. to Gal-
ilee, passed thro h the country of Samaria, a place inhabited not by
Jews, but a mixlei company o several nations, and some remainders
of the posterity of Israel, who escaped the captivity, and were re-
turned from Assyria; and being weary with his journey, arrived
about the sixth hour or noon (according to the Jews’ reckoning the
time ofthe day), at a well that Jacob ha digged, which was of great
account among the inhabitants for the antiquity of it, as well as the
usefulness of it, in supplying their necessities: he being thirsty, and
having none to furnish him wherewith to draw water, at last comes
a woman from the city, whom he desires to 've him some water to
drink. The woman, perceiving him b his lzingiiage or habit to be
a Jew, wonders at the question, since tile hatre the Jews bore the
Samaritans was so great, that they would not vouchsafe to have any
commerce with them, not only in religious, but civil affairs, and
common oiiiccs belon 'ng to mankind. Hence our Saviour takes oc-
casion to publish to her the doctrine of the gospel; and excuseth
her rude answer by her ignorance of him; and tells her, that if she
had asked him a greater matter, even that which concerned her eternal
salvation, he would readily have granted it, notwithstanding the
rooted hatred between the Jews and Samaritans; and bestowed a
water of a greater virtue, the “water of life.”i The woman is no less
astonished at his reply than she was at his ‘first demand. It was
strange to hear a man speak of giving livinfr water to one of whom
he had begged the water of that spying, and’ had no vessel to draw
any to quench his own thirst. S e t erefore demands whence he
could have this water that he s eaks of,|< since she conceived him
not greater than Jacob, who hadp diggcd that well and drank of it.
Our Saviour, desirous to make a progress in that work he had begun,
extols the water he spake of; above this of the well, from its partic-
ular virtue fully to refresh those that drank of it, and be as a cooling
and comforting fountain within them, of more efiicacy than that
without! The woman, conceiving a good opinion of our Saviour,
‘ Amarant. Pnraph. llll' Jean. ‘ Ver 10; 01' “living water.”
U Ver. 11. | Ver. 18. 14.

