' ON GOD`S BEING A SPIRIT. 177
desirw to partake of this water, to save her pains in coming daily to
the well, not apprehending the spirituality of Christ’s discourse to
herzm Christ finding her to take some pleasure in his discourse,
partly to bring her to a sense of her sin, before he did communicate
the excellenc of his grace, bids her return back to the city and
bring her husband with her to him." She freely acknowledges that
she had no husband; whether having some check of conscience at
present for the unclean life she led, or loth to lose so much time in
the gaining this water so much desired by her :° our Savioiu takes
an occasion from this to la o en her sin before her, and to make her
sensible of her own wickediliiiz and the pro hetic excellenc of him-
self; and tells her she had had five husbandis, to whom she had been
false, and by whom she was divorced, and the person she now dwelt
with was not her lawful husband, and in living with him she violated
the rights of marri , and increased guilt upon her conscience!
The woman being agiztted with this discourse, and knowing him to
be a stranger that could not be certified of those things but in an
extraordinary way, begins to have a high esteem of him as a prophets
And upon this opinion she esteems him able to decide a uestion,
which had been canvassed between them and the Jews, aihout the
place of worship! Their fathers worshipping in that mountain, and
the Jews aiiirming Jerusalem to be a p ace of worship, she pleads
the antiquity of the worship in this place, Abraham having built an
altar there (Gen. xii. 7?, and Jacob, upon his return from Syria.
And, surely, had the p ace been capab e of an exce tion, such per-
sons as they, and so well acquainted with the willpof God, uld
not have ‘pitched upon that place to celebrate their worship. Anti-
aiuity hat , too, too often bewitched the minds of men, and drawn
em from the revealed will of God. Men are more willing to imi-
tate the outward actions of their famous ancestors, than conform
themselves to the revealed will of their Creatoég The Samaritans
would imitate the patriarchs in the place of wo ip, but not in the
faith of the worshippers. Christ answers her, that this question
would quickly be resolved by a new state of the church, which was
near at hand ; and neither J erusalcm, which had now the precedency,
nor that mountain, should be of any more value in that concern,
than any other place in the world :H but et, to make her sensible
of her sin and that of her countr men, telli her, that their worship
in that mountain was not according to the will of God, he having
l0ng after the altars built in this place, Hxed Jerusalem as the place
of sacrifices; besides, they had not the knowledge of that God which
ought to be worshipped by them, but the Jews ad the “true object
of worship,” and the “true manner of worship, according to the de-
clamtion God had made of himself to them.’ = But all that service
shall vanish, the veil of the temple shall be rent in twain, and that
carnal worship give lace to one more spiritual; shadows shall fly
before substance, and truth advance itself above figures; and the
worship of God shall be with the strength ofthe Spirit: such a wor-
lbip, and such worshippers doth the Father seek;“ for “God is a
' Ver. 15. ° Ver. 16. ' Ver. 17. I Ver. 18. * Ver. 19.
' Ver. 20. ' Ver. 21. * Ver. 22. ' Ver. 28.
vol.. I.-l 2 »

