178 csiuurocx ON 'ms .vrrnrsurss
Spirit: and those that worship him must worship him in spirit and
in truth.” The design of our Saviour is to declare, that God is not
taken with external worship invented by men, no, nor commanded
by himself; and that upon this reason, because he is a spiritual es-
sence, infinitely above gross and corporeal matter, and is not taken
with that pomp which is a pleasure to our earthly imaginations.
llvfiiw 0 l~Jf6;. Some translate it just as the words ie: “Spirit is
God.”* But it is not unusual, both in the Old and New Testament
languages, to put the predicate before the subiect, as Psalm v. 9,
“Their throat is an open sepulchre ;" in the He rew, “A sepulchre
open their throat ;” so Psalm cxi. 3, “His work is honorable and glo-
nous ;” Heb. “Honor and glory is his work;” and there wants not
one example in the same evangelist (John i. 1), “ And the VVord was
God ;” Greek, “ And God was the Word:” m all, the predicate, or
what is ascribed, is put before the subject to which it is ascribed.
One tells us, and he, a head of a party that hath made a disturbance
in the church of God,! that this place is not aptly brought to rove
God to be a Spirit; and the reason of Christ runs not thus,-Called is
of a spiritual essence, and therefore must be worshipped with a spir;~
itual worship; for the essence of God is not the foundation of his
worship, but his will; for then we were not to worship him with a
eortporeal worship, because he is not a body; but with an invisible
an eternal worship, because he is invisible and eternal. But the
nature of God is the foundation of worship ; the will of God is the
rule of worship; the matter and manner is to be performed accord-
ing to the will of God. But is the nature of the object of worship
to be excluded? No; as the ob`ect is, so ought our devotion to be,
spiritual as he is spiritual. God, in his commands for worship, re-
s ected the discovery of his own nature; in the law, he respected
the discovery of his mercy and {ustice, and therefore commanded a
worship by sacr`ces; a pipiritua worship without those institutions
would not have declare those attributes which was God’s end to
display to the world in Christ; and though the nature of God is to
be res ected in worshi , yet the obligations of the creature are to be
considlered. God is a Spirit, therefore must have a spiritual worship;
the creature hath a body as well as a soul, and both from God; and
therefore ought to worship God with the one as well as the other,
since one as well as the other is freely bestowed upon him. The
grrituality of God was the foundation of the change from the Ju-
`cal carnal worshi to a more s iritual and evangelical.
God :ls a Spinl; tliat is, he hath nothing corporeal, no mixture of
matter, not a visible substance, a bodily form! He is a Spirit, not
a bare spiritual substance, but an understanding, willin Spuit, holy,
wise, good, and just. Before, Christ spake of the Fatierg# the iirst
. erson in the Trinity; now he speaks of God essentially: the word
igather is personal, the word God essential; so that our Saviour would
render a reason, not from any one person in the blessed Trinity, but
from the Divine nature, why we should worship in spirit, and there-
tbre makes use of the word God, the being a Spirit being common
I Vulgar Lat. Illyre. Clav. I Episoop. Institut. lib. iv. e. 8.
U Melancthun. ° Ver, 28.

