ON eon‘s BEING A srrarr. 179
to the other persons with the Father. This is the reason of the rop-
osition (ver. 23), “Of a .spiritual worshqn.” Every nature dellights
in that which is like it, and distastes that which is most different
from it. If God were co real, he might be pleased with the victims
of beasts, and the beautiliiilo magnificence of tem les, and the noise of
music; but being a Spirit, he cannot be gratified with carnal things;
he demands something better and greater than all those,-that soul
which he made, that soul which he hath endowed, a spirit of a frame
suitable to his nature. He indeed appointed sacrifices, and a tem-
ple, as shadows of those things which were to be most acceptable to
`m in the Messiah, but they were imposed only “till the time of
reformation.”‘>
Must worship him; not they may, or it would be more agreeable
to God to have such a manner of worship; but they must. lit is not
exclusive of bodily worship; for this were to exclude all public wor-
ship in societies, which cannot be performed without reverential s-
tures of the body! The gestures of the body are helps to worsliip,
and declarations of spiritual acts. We can scarcely worship God with
our spirits without some tincture upon the outward man; but he
excludes all acts merel corporeal, all resting upon an extemal ser-
vice and devotion, which was the crime of the Pharisees, and the
general persuasion of the Jews as well as _heathens, who used the
outward ceremonies, not as signs of better things, but as if they did
of themselves please God, and render the worshippers accepted with
him, without any suitable frame of the inward mans* It is as if he
had said, Now you must separate yourselves from all carnal modes
to which the service of God is now tied, and render a worshi
chiefly consisting in the affectionate motions of the heart, ang
accommodated more exactly to the condition of the object, who is a
S irit.
Pln spin! and truth! The evangelical service now required has the
advantage of the former; that was a shadow and figure, this the body
and truth! Spirit, say some, is here opposed to the legal ceremonies;
truth, to hypocritical services; or, rather truth is opposed to shadows,s'
and an opinion of worth in the outward action; it is principally
opposed to external rites, because our Saviour saith éver. 23): “The
hour comes, and now is,” &»c. Had it been oppose to hy oerisy,
Christ had said no new thing; for God always re uired trutii in the
inward parts, and all true worshippers had served(i1im with a sincere
conscience and single heart. The old patriarchs did worship God in
spirit and truth, as taken for sincerity; such a worship. was always,
and is pe tually due to God, because he always was, and eterna ly
will be, al-ge irit.h And it is said, “The Father seeks such to worshi
him,” not, shall seek; he always sought it; it always was performed
to him by one or other in the world: and the prophets had always
rebuked them for resting upon their outward solemnities (Isa. lviii.
7, and Micah vi. 8): but a worship without legal rites was proper to
an evangelical state and the times of the gospeh God having then
exhibited Christ, and brought into the wor d the substance of those
5 Heb, ig, 10_ ‘ Teruiti. 4 Amirald, in loc. ° Amiraid, in loc.
‘ Muscul. I Chemnit. 5 Museul.

