180 cH.uzNoc1c ON THE .urrsmun-ss.
shadows, and the end of those institutions; there was no more need
to continue them when the trife reason of them was ceased. [KT
laws do natural] expire when the true reason upon which they
were first framed is changegal Or by spirit may be meant, such a
worship as is kindled in the' eart b the breath of the Holy' Ghost.
Since we are dead in sin, a spirituaii light and flame in the heart,
suitable to the nature of the object of om' worship, cannot be raised
in us without the operation of a su ernatural grace; and though the
fathers could not worship God without the Spirit, yet in the ospel-
times, there being a fuller effusion of the Spirit, the evangclicgl state
is called, “the administration of the Spirit,’ and “the newness of the
Spirit,” in opposition to the legal economy, entitled the “oldness of
the letter."i The evangelical state is more suited to the nature of
God than any other; such a worship God must have, whereby he is
acknowledged to be the true sanctitier and quickener of the soul.
The nearer God doth approach to us, and the more full his man' es-
tations are, the more spiritual is the worship we return to God. The
gospel pares oif the rugged parts of the law, and heaven shall remove
what is material in the gospel and change the ordinances of Worship
into that of a spiritual praisy
In the words there is: 1. A proposition,-“God is a Spirit;” the
gpundation of all religion. 2. An inference,-“ They that worship
im,’ &c. '
As God, a worship belongs to him; as a Spirit, a spiritual wor-
ship is due to him: in the inference we have, 1. The manner of
worship, “in spirit and truth ;” 2. The necessity of such a worship,
“ must.’
The proposition declares the nature of God; the inference, the
dut f of man. The observations lie plain. g
(gbs. 1. God is a ure spiritual bein : “he is a Spirit.” 2. The
worship due from the creature to God must be agreeable to the
nature of God, and purely spiritual. 3. The evangelical state is
suited to the nature of God. _
I. For the first: “God is a pure spiritual being.” It is the obser-
vation of one,*= that the lain assertion of God’s being a Spirit is
foimd but once in the whole Bible, and that is in this place; which
may well be wondered at, because God is so often described with
hands, feet, eyes, and ears, in the form and figure of a man. The
spiritual nature of God is deducible from man places; but not any-
where, as I remember, asserted totidem verbis, but in this text: some
allege that lace (2 Cor. iii. 17), “The Lord is that Spirit,” for the
proof of it; but that seems to have a diiferent sense: in the text, the
nature of God is described; in that place, the operations of God in
the gospel. “It is not the ministry of Moses, or that old covenant,
which communicates to you that Spirit it speaks of; but_ it is the
Lord Jesus, and the doctrine of the gospel delivered by him, whereby
this Spirit and liberty is dispensed to you; he opposes here the lib-
ert of the gospel to the servitude of the law ;| it is from Christ that
a divine virtue diffuseth itself b the go el; it is b him, not by
the law, that We partake of that Spirit. The spirituahty of God is
‘ 2 Cor. iii. 8; Rom. vii. 6. * Episeop. Institut. lib. iv. c. 8. ' Ami:-aid, in 'ol-
._ m 7 “__ _ lm,

