on Goxrs same A srmm 181`
asevident ashis being." Ifwe grant that God is, we must neces-
sarily grant that he cannot be corporeal, because a body is of an
imperfect nature. It will a pear incredible to any that acknowledge
God the 'first Being and (greater of all things, that he should be a
masy, heavy body, and have eyes and ears, feet and hands, as we
have.-For the explication of it,
L Spirit is taken various ways in Scripture. It signifies sometimes
an   substance, as Psalm xi. 6; a horrible tempest (Heb. a s irit
of tempestgil sometim  the breath, which is a. thin substance (gen.
vi. 17): “ flesh, wherein is the breath of life" (Heb. spirit of life).
A thin substance, though it be material and co real, is called
spirit; and in the bodies of living creatures, that which is the prin-
ciple of their actions is called s irits, the animal and vital spirits.
And the finer parts extracted fibm plants and minerals we call
irits, those vo tile parts separated hom that gross matter wherein
may were immersed, because they come nearest to the nature of an
incorporeal substance; and fiom this notion of the Word, it is trans-
lated to signify those substances that are urely immaterial, as angels
and the souls of men. Angels are called irits (Psalm civ. 4):
“W'ho makes his angels ` `1s;"“ and not oisy good an els are so
mlled, but evil angels  SHE; souls. of men are called spirits
(Eccles.   and the soul of C ° is called so (Johnxix. 30%
whence G is called “the God of the s irits of all flesh" (Num .
xxii. 16). And stpirit is opposed to flesh (lsa. xxxi. 3); “The Egyp-
tians are ilesh, an not spirit” And our Saviour gives us the notion
of a spirit to be something above the nat\u°e of a bod (Luke xxiv.
89), “not having ilesh and bones,” extended parts, loads of gross
matter. It is also taken for those things which are active and effica-
cilus; because activity is of the nature. of a spirit: Caleb had another
spirit (Numb. xiv. 24), an' active affection. The vehement motions
of sin are called spirit (Hos. iv. li): “the spirit of whoredoms,” in
thatsense that Prov. xxix. 11, “a ool utters all his mind,” all his
spirit; knows not how to restrain the vehement motions of his
mind. that the notion of a spirit is, that it is a, fine, immaterial
substance, an active being, that acts itself and other things. A mere
bod cannot act itself; as the body of man cannot move without the
soul? no more than a ship can move itself without wind and waves.
S0 God is called a Spirit, as being not a body, not having the great-
nm, iigure, thickness, or len of a body, wholly separate from
anything of iieshand matter. We ind a principle within us nobler
than that of our bodies; an therefore, we conceive the nature of
God, according to that which is more worthy in us, and not accord-
ing to that whichis the vilest part ofour natures. Godisamost
spiritual   more spiritual than all angels, all souls.° As he
exceeds all in the natureofbeing, so he exceeds allin the nature of
spirit: he hath nothing gross, heavy, material, in his emence.
2. When we sayGodisaSpi1it, itistobeunderstood by way of
negation. There are two ways of knowing or describing God: by
ny of affirmation, aiiirming that of him by way of eminency, whic
S excellent in the creature, as when we say God is wise, good; _ the
l§“|»¢_d¢D¢o,voLi.p.9,e0|.8. 'Hehi.l4_ °Gerlm'd./aovvrpémag.

