I
182 CHARNOCK. ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
other, by way of negation, when we remove from God in our cou-
ceptions what is tainted with imperfection in the creature.P '1`he first
ascribes to him whatsoeve ` excellent; the other separates from him
whatsoever is imperfect. The first is like a limning, which adds one
color to another to make comely picture; the other is like a carv-
ing, which pares d cuts away whatsoever is superiiuous, to make
a. complete statue. This way of negation is more easy; we better
understand what od is not, than what he is; and most of our knowl~
edge of God is by this way; as when we say God is infinite, immense,
immutable, they are negatives; he hath no limits, is confined to no
place, admits of no changes When we remove from him what is
inconsistent with his being, we do more strongly assert his being,
and know more of him when we elevate him above all, and above
our own capacity. And when we say God is a Spirit, it is a negation ;'
he is not a bod ; he consists not of various parts, extended one with-
out and beyond, another. He is not a spirit, so as our souls are, to
be the form of any body; a spirit, not as angels and souls are, but
infinitely higher. We call him so, because, in regard of our weak-
ness, we have not any other term of exeelleney to express or conceive
of him by; we transfer it to Godin honor, because spirit is the highest
excellency in our nature: yet we must apprehen God above any
spirit, since his nature is so great that he cannot be declared by hu-
man speech, perceived by uman sense, or conceived by human
understanding.
ll. The second thin , that “God is a Spirit." Some amon the
heathens imagined God; to have a body ;' some thought him to have
a body of air; some a heavenly bod ; some a human' body;° and
many of them ascribed bodies to their gods, but bodies without
blood, without corruption, bodies made up of the finest and thinnest
atoms; such bodies, which, if compared with ourls, were as no bodi<>
The Sadducees also, who denied all spirits, and yet acknowledged a
God, rnust conclude him to be a body, and no spirit. Some among
Christians have been of that opinion. Tertullian is charged by some,
and excused by others; and some monks of Egypt were so tierce for
this error, that they attempted to kill one Theophilus, a bishop, for
not being of that judgment. But the wiser heathens were of another
rnind,* and esteemed it an unhol thing to have such imaginations
of God." And some Christians lirave thought God only to be free
from anything of body, because he is omnipresent, immutable, he is
onl_v incorporeal and spiritual; all things else, even the angels, are
clothed with bodies, though of a neater matter, and a. more active
frame than ours; a pure spiritual nature they allowed to no being
but God. Scripture and reason meet together to assert the spirituality
of God. Had God had the lineaments of a bodv, the Gentiles had not
fallen under that accusation of changing his glory into that of a cor-
ruptible man! This is signified by the name God gives himself
(Exod.   14): “I am that I am;” a simple, pure, uncompoxmded
P Giunachcus, Tom. I. Q. 8. c. i. p. 42. -1 Coccci, Sum. Theol. c. 8.
U Thes. Sedan. Part II. p, 1000. ° Vossius Idolol. lib. ii. ¢-_ l. Forbes, Instru-
ineut. lib. i. c. 86. * Ofm barov.
' Plut-arch, irworporalis ratio divinus lpiritus. Seneca. I Rom. i. 28.

