 
ON GOD’S BEING A srmrr. 183
I
xmg, without ipoy crested mixture; as infinitely above the being
o creatures as a. ve t e conce tions of creatures Job xxxvii. 23 :
“Touching the Almiglhty, we ciinnot find him out.S He is so mudh
Egrrit, that he is t e “Father of spirits” (Heb. xii. 9). The Al-
ty Father is not of a. nature inferior to his children. The soul
isa spirit; it could not else exert actions without the assistance of
thebody, as the act of understanding itself, and its own nature, the
act of willing, and willing things against the incitements and 'interest
ot§rt;1{:b<>dy. It could 1133; else coniive of God, angels, and imma-
' substances; it co not else so active as wit one lance
to fetch a compass from earth to heaven, and liy a sudden mémtion,
to elevate the understanding from an earthly thou ht, to the think-
ing of thingsas high asthe highest heavens. If weiave this opinion
of our souls, which, in the nobleness of their acts, surmount the body,
without which the body is but a dull inactive piece of clay, we must
needs have a hi her conception of God, than to clog him with any
matter, though oig a Hner temper than ours: we must conceive of him
bv the perfections of our souls, without the vileneam of our bodies.
If God made man according to his image, we must raise our thoughts
of God according to the noblest part of that image, and imagine the
exemplar or copy not to come short, but to exceed the thing copied
by it. God were not the most excellent substance if he were not a
` 't. S iritual substances are more excellent than bodil ; the soul
itfgan mldrerleicellent than otlier animals; angels morey exsellent
men. e contain, in eir own nature, whatsoever i `
there is in the inferior creatures; God must have, therefore, agus;
nellency above all those, and, therefore, is entirely remote from the
spdditionslpf a body. tg is a gross conceit, therefor%0t(p thinlk that
" issuc a. iritas eairis; orthatistobea asteair
ns, though it bespa thin one; and if God were no more ayspirit than
lhat, or than angels, he would not be the most simple being! Yet
aome think that the spiritual Deity was represented by the air in the
nl: of the testament! It was unlawful to represent him b any
image that God had prohibited. Evegything about the ark had a
particular signification. The gold an other ornaments about it
iifgnilied something of Christ, but were unfit to represent the nature
God: a thing purely invisible, and falling under nothing of sense,
could not represent him to the mind of man. The air in the ark was
the fittest; it represented the invisibility of God, air beinv imperce(p~
tible to our eye; Air diiiiiseth itself gllrough all parts oi? thle worl ;
it 'des thro secret assages into creatures; it fills t e ace
begeen heavlgi End eariiih. _There is no place wherein God isp not
present. To evi ence this,
1. If God were not a S irit, he could not be Creator. All multi-
inde begins in, and is rediiced to unity. As above multitude there
is an absolute unity, so above mixed creatures there is an absolute
simplicity. You cannot conceive number without conceiving the
beginning of it in that which was not number, viz. a_unit. You
cannot conceive any mixture, but you must conceive some simple
thing to be the original and basis of it. The works of art done y
1 mtv. swan. Prollig. ppt 129, mo. - Amixald. sup. Heh ix. p. 146, aw.

