184 CHARNOCK ON 'ran ATTRIBUTES.
rational creatures have their fotmdation in something s iritual.
Every artificer, watchmaker, carpenter, hath a model in   own
mind of the work he designs to frame: the material and outward
fabric is squared according to an inward and s iritual idea. A
spiritual idea speaks a spiritual faculty as the subject of it. God
could not have an idea ot that vast number of creatures he brought
into being, if he had not had a spiritual nature.” The wisdom
whereby the world was created could never be the fruit of a cor~
poreal nature; such natures are not capable of understanding and
comprehendin the things which are within the com ass of their
nature, much less of producing them; and therefore beasts which
have only corporeal faculties move to objects by the force of their
sense, and have no knowledge of things as they are comprehended
by the understanding of man. All acts of wisdom speak an intel-
ligent and spiritual agent. The effects of wisdom, goodness, power,
are so great and admirable, that the bespxeak him a more perfect
and eminent being than can possibly be be eld under a bodily shape.
Can a corporeal substance put “wisdom in the inward parts, and
give understanding to the heart `?”" r i
2. If God were not a pure Spirit, he could not be one. If God
had a body, consisting of distinct members, as ours; or all of one
nature, as the water and air are, yet he were then ca able of division,
and therefore could not be entirely one. Either tliose arts would
be finite or infinite: if Hnite, they are not parts of Goff; for to be
God and Hnite is a contradiction ; if infinite, then there are as many
infinite as distinct members, and therefore as many Deities. Sup-
pose this body had all parts of the same nature, as air and water
ath, every little part of air is as much air as the greatest, and every
little part of water is as much water asthe ocean; so every little part
of God would be as much God as the whole; as many particular
Deities to make up God, as little atoms to compose a body. What
can be more absurd? If God had a body like a human body, and
were compounded of bod and soul, of substance and qualit ', he
could not be the most r¥ect unity ; he would be made up oil dis-
tinct parts, and those od); distinct nature, as the members of a human
body are. Where there is the greatest unity, there must be the
greatest simplicity; but God is one. As he is free from any change,
so he is void of any multitude (Deut. vi. 4); “The Lord our God is
one Lord." _
3. If God had a body as we have, he would not be invisible.
Every material thing is not visible : the air is a body yet invisible,
but it is sensible; the cooling quality of it is felt by us at every
breath, and we know it by our touch, which is the most material
sense. Everybody that hath members like to bodies, is visible ; but
God is invisible! The apostle reckons it amongst his other perfec-
tions (1 Tim. i. 17): “ Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisi-
ble.” He is invisible to our sense, which belrolds nothing but ma-
terial and colored things; and incomprehensible to our understand-
ing, that conceives nothing but what is iinite. God is therefore a
Spirit incapable of being seen, and ixrnitely incapable of being un
l Amyrant, Morale. Tom. I. p. 282. * Job xxxviii. 88. ' Daille, in Tim.

