ON cons name A srmrr. 185
ilelstood. Ifhe be invisible, he is also spiritual. Ifhe had abod ,
mdhid it from our eyes, he might be said not tb be seen, but oouhi
notbe said to be invisible. When we say a. thing is visible, we un-
derstand that it hath such alnalities which are the objects of sense,
though we may never see at which is in its own nature to be seen.
God hath no such qlualities as fall under the erception of our sense.
Hisworks are visib e to us, but not his Godiiead. The nature of
ahnman body is to be seen and handled; Christ gives us such a de-
saption of it (Luke xxiv. 39): “Handle me and see, for a s irit
farnprtgiesh and bones as you see me l;)avi;” but man hath lieen
E3 seeingGod,“thatitisim 'le ecanseehim” (1 Tim.
vi. 16). There is such -a dispmpompdlislbetween an infinite object
ani;   and nn<iipr;1anhd1;1.g, that it ésgduttsaly im(powible
ext to o orcomzee ' Butif h abo more
luminous and glorious than that of the sun, he would be as welll visi-
ble to us as the sim, though the immensity of that li ht would dazzle
our eyes, and forbid any close inspection into him by the virtue of
our sense. We have seen the shape and figure of the sim, but “ no
lnan hath ever seen the shape of God.”° If God had a body, he were
visible, though he might not perfectly and fully be seen by us ;f as
Ire see the heavens, though we see not the extension, latitude, and
greatness of them. Though God hath manifested himself in a bodily
shape (Gen. xviii. lf), and elsewhere Jehovah appeared to Abraham,
yet the substance o- God was not seen, no more than the substance
of angels was seen in their apparitions to men. A bod was formed
to be made visible by them, and such actions done in tliat body, that
spake the person that did them to be of a higher eminenc than a
bale corporeal creature. Sometimes a representation is made to the
iluizagg sense and E};|;agination, 01? éo0d,M;ca;1ah,s and to Isaiahi   1);
y saw no essence u some 1m an gures
Of him proportioned to their sense or imagination. alllhse essence of
God no man ever saw, nor can see. John i. 18. Nor- doth it follow
thatGodhatha bod ,|' because Jacob is said to “see God face to
face” (Gen. xxxii. ;0); and Moses had the like privilege (Deut.
xxxiv. 10). This only signifies a fuller and clearer manifestation of
God by some representations offered to the bodil sense, or rather
to the inward spirit. For God tells Moses he oonil not see his face
od.   2%); and that none ever saw the similitude of God
ivix15). b ere God H; corporeal substance, he might in some
measure seen co e es.
4. If God were hot zilgpirit, lib could not be infinite. All bodies
are of a finite légdture lpverybody is materiil, gud iszeryileximaterial
flung' istermina . esun,avastbod, at a un t-
m; gh; heavens, of a mighgy bulk, yet lirave their   Ifgriigeg
a hemustconsisto arts,tosepartswoul boun
and limiteli, and whatsoever is   is o a Hnite virtue, and there-
Ere below an infinite nature. Reason therefore tells us, that the
most excellent nature, as God is, cannot be of a corporeal condition;
because of the limitation and other actions which belong to every
*Rnm.i.20. 'Johnv.87. fGoulart.deDieu,p.04
l1King|xxii.l9. *Goula.rt.deDien,p.96,¢6.

