186 GHARNOCK ON 'rss A'rrn1su'rss.
  God is infinite, “for the heaven of heavens cannot contain
him’ (2 Chron.   6). The largest heavens, and those imaginary
vspaces be ond the world, are no bounds to him. He hath an essence
beyond tile bounds of the world, and cannot be included in the vastf
ness of the heavens. If God be infinite, then he can have no parts
in him; if he had, they must be fini or infinite: finite parts can
never make u an infinite being. A vessel of gold, of a pound
weight, cannotgie made of the quanti of an ounce. Infinite rts
they cannot be because then every part would be equal to the wlihle,
as infinite as the whole, which is contradictorylg We see in all things
every part is less than the whole bulk that is co posed of it ; as every
member of a. man is less than the whole body of man. If all the
garts were finite, then God in his essence were finite; and a finite
od is not more excellent than a creatine: so that if God were not
a Spirit, he could not be infinite.
. 5. If God were not a. Spirit, he could not be an inde endent being.
Whatsoever is compounded of many parts depends eidier essentially
or integrally upon t ose parts ; as the essence of a man depends u n
the conjunction and union of his two main parts, his soul and body);
when the are separated, the essence of a man ceaseth: and the per-
fection ofy a man depends upon every member of the body; so that
if one be wanting the perfection of the whole is wanting: as if a. man
hath lost a limb, you call him not a perfect man, 'because that part
is gone upon which his rfection as an entire man did de nd. If
God therefore had a bod); the perfection of the Deity would depend
upon every part of that body; and the more parts he were com-
pounded of, tire more his dependency would be multiplied according
to the number of those parts of the body: for that which is com-
pounded of many parts is more de endent than that which is -com-
pounded of fewer. And because (god would be a de endent being
if he had a body, he could not be the Brst being; for die com ound-
ing parts are in order of nature before that which is compounded by
them; as the soul and body are before the man which results from
the union of them. If God had parts and bodily members as we
have, or any composition, the ewence of God would result from thom
parts, and t ose parts be supposed to bebefore God. For that which
is a part, is before that whose part it is. As in artiiicial thin you
may conceive it: all the parts of a watch or clock are in timegsefore
that watch which is made by setting those parts together. In natural
things lyou must suppose the members of a body framed before you
can ca it a man ; so that the parts of this body are before that which
is constituted by them. We can conceive no other of God, if he
were not a pure, entire, unmixed Spirit. If he had distinct parts,
he would de end upon them; those parts would be before him ; his
essence would be the effect of those distinct parts, and so he would
not be absolute] and entirely the first being; but he is so (Isa. xliv.
6): “I am the first, and I am the last.” He is the first; nothing is
before him. Whereas, if he had bodily parts, and those finite, it
would follow, God is made up of those parts which are not God ; and
that which is not God, is in order of nature before that which is God.
So_ that we see if God were not a Spirit he could not be independent.

