on cons BEING A srmrr. 187
6. If God were not a Spirit, he were not immutable and unchange-
able. His immutability depends upon his sim licity. He is un
changeable in his essence, because he is a pure amid unmixed spiritual
Being. Whatsoever is compounded of parts may be divided into
those parts, and resolved into those distinct parts which make u and
constitute the nature. Whatsoever is compounded is changeable in
its own nature, though it should never be changed. Adam, wl o was
constituted of body and soul, had he stood in innocence, had not
died; there had been no separation made between his soul and body
whereof he was constituted, and his body had not resolved into those
principles of dust from whence it was extracted. Yet in his own
nature he was dissoluble into those distinct parts whereof he was
compounded; and so the gloriied saints in heaven, after the resur-
rection, and the ha py meeting of their souls and bodies in a new
marriage knot, shall never be dissolved; yet in their own nature
they are mutable and dissoluble, and cannot be otherwise, because
they are made up of such distinct arts that may be separated in
their own nature, unless sustained gy the grace of God: they are
immutable by will, the will of God, not by nature. God is immuta-
ble by nature as well as will: as he hath a necessary existence, so
he hath a necessary unchangeableness &lMal.   6), “I, the Lord,
change not.” He is as unchangeable in is essence as in his veracity
and faithfulness: they are perfections belonging to his nature. But
if he were not a pure Spirit, he could not be immutable by nature.
7. If God were not a pure Spirit, he could not be omnipresent.
He is in heaven above, and the earth below;i he fills heaven and
earth! The divine essence is at once in heaven and earth; but it
is impossible a body can be in two laces at one and the same time.
Since God is everywhere, he must he s iritual. Had he a body, he
could not penetrate all things; he would Ee circumscribed in place. He
could not be everywhere but in parts, not in the whole; one member
in one place, and another in anot er; for to be confined to a dparticular
place, is the propert of a body: but, since he is diffuse through
the whole world, hi her than heaven, deeper than hell, longer than
the earth, broader than the sea) he hath not any co real matter.
If he had a body wherewith to fill heaven and earth, Itliere could be
no body besides his own: it is the nature of bodies to bound one
another, and hinder the extending of one another. Two bodies can-
not be in the same place in the same point of earth: one excludes
the other; and it will follow hence t at we are nothing, no sub-
stances, mere illusions; there could be no place for anybody else.m
If his body were as big as the world, as it must be if with that he
Elled heaven and earth, there would not be room for him to move a
hand or a foot, or extend a linger; for there would be no place re-
maining for the motion.
8. If od were not a Spirit, he could not be the most perfect
being. he more perfect anything is in the rank of creatures, the
more spiritual and simple it is, as gold is the more pure and perfect
that hath least mixture of other metals. If God were. not a Spirit,
' Deut. iv. 39. * Jer. xxiii. 2 . I Job xi. 8.
' Gamacheua, Theol. Tom. I. Quo: 8. c. i.
`

