188 cinnnocx ON ms Arrmsurss.
there would be creatures of a more excellent nature than God, as
an els and souls, which the Scripture call s irits, in opposition to
bodies. There is more of perfection in the iirst notion of a spirit
than in the notion of a body. God cannot be less perfect than his
creatures, and contribute an excellency of bein to them which he
wants himself If angels and souls possess such an excellency, and
God want that excellency, he would be less than his creatures, and
the excellency of the eifect would exceed the excellency of the cause.
But every creature, even the highest creature, is infinitely short of
the perfection of God; for whatsoever excellency they have is finite
and imited; it is but a spark from the sun-a drop from the ocean ;
but God is unboundedly perfect, in the highest manner, without any
limitation; and therefore above spirits, angels, the highest creatures
that were made b him: an infinite sublimity, a pure act, to which
nothing can be adlded, from which nothing can be taken. “ In him
there is light and no darkness,”“ spirituality without any matter,
perfection without any shadow or taint of imperfection. Light
piereeth into all things, preserves its own purity, and admits of no
mixture of anything else with it. _
Question. It may be said, If God be a Spirit, and it is impossible
he can be otherwise than a Spirit, how comes God so often to have
such members as we have in our bodies ascribed to him, not only a
soul, but particular bodily parts, as heart, arms, hands, e es, ears,
face, and back parts? And how is it that he is never called’ a Spirit
in plain words, but in this text by our Saviom?
Amwer. It is true, many parts of the bod ,and natural affections
of the human nat\u°e, are reported of God’ in Scripture. Head,°
eyes, and eye-lids,P apple of the eye, mouth, &c.; our ailections also,
grief; 'oy, anger, &c. But it is to be considered,
1. ’i‘hat this is in condescension to our weakness. God being
desirous to make himself known to man, whom he created for his
glory, humbles, as it were, his own nature to such representations as
may suit and assist the capacity of the creatine; since by the condi-
tion of our nature nothin erects a notion of itself in our understand-
ing, but as it is conducted in by our sense!! God hath served him-
self of those things which are most exposed to our sensei most
obvious to our understandings, to give us some acquaintance with
his own nature, and those things which otherwise we were not capa-
ble of having any notion of As om' souls are linked with our
bodies, so our knowledge is linked with our sense; that we can
scarce imagine anything, at first, but under a corporeal form and
figure, till we come, by great attention to the object, to make, by
the help of reason, a separation of the spiritual substance from the
corporeal fancy, and consider it in its own nature. We are not able
to conceive a spirit, without some kind of resemblance to something
below it, nor understand the actions of a spirit, without considering
the operations of a human body in its several members. As the
lories of another life are signified to us by the pleasures of this; so
are nature of God, by a gracious condescension to our capacities, is
' 1 John i. 5. ’ Dan. vii. 9. I Psalm xi. 4.
1 “Loquitur lex seound. ling. tiliorum hominum," was the Heathen saying.

