on eoD‘s same A srmrr. 189
signified to its by a likeness to our own. The more familiar the
things are to us which God uses to this pinpose, the more proper
they are to teach us what he intends by them. _,
2. All such representations are to signify the acts of God, as they
bear some likeness to those which we perform by those members
he ascribes to himself So that those members ascribed to him
rather note his visible operations to us, than his invisible nature; and
signify that God doth some works like to those which men do by the
amistance of those organs of their bodies. So the wisdom of God is
called his eye, because he knows that with his mind which we see
with our eyes! The eiiiciency of God is called his hand and arm;
because as we act with our hands, so doth God with his power. The
divine efiicacies are signified :-by his eyes and ears, we understand
his omniscience; by his face, themanifestation of his favor; by his
mouth, the revelation of his will; by his nostrils, the acceptation of
our prayers; by his bowels the tenderness of his complassion; b
hisheart, the sincerity of his affections; by his hand, t e strength
of his power; by his eat, the ubi uity of his presence. And in this,
he intends instruction and comfort: by his eyes, he signifies his
watcbfulness over us; by his ears, his readiness to hear the cries of
the oppressed;' by his arm, his power-an arm to destroy his ene-
mies, and an- arm to relieve his eople.' All those are attributed to
God to signify divine actions, which he doth without bodily organs
as we do with them. J
3. Consider also, thatonly those members which are the instru-
ments of the noblest actions, and under that consideration, are used
by him to represent a notion of him to our minds. Whatsoever is
perfect and excellent is ascribed to him, but nothing that savors of
1mperfection.“ The heart is ascribed to him, it being the principle
of vital actions, to signify the life that he hath in himself; watchful
and discerning e es, not sleeply and lazy ones; a mouth to reveal
his will, not to take in food. o eat and sleep are never ascribed to
him, nor those arts that belong to the reparing or transmitting
nourishment to tilie several parts of the b0fl?T, as stomach, liver, reins,
nor bowels under that consideration, but as they are significant of
compavsion; but only those parts are ascribed to him whereby we
acquire knowledge, as eyes and ears, the organs of learning and
wisdom; or to communicate it to others, as the mouth, li s, tongue,
as they are instruments of speaking, not of tasting; or ihose parts
which signify strength and power, or whereby we perform the
actions of charity for the rehef of others; taste and touch, senses
that extend no farther than to corporeal things, and are the grossest
of all the senses, are never ascribed to him.
4. It were worth consideration, “ whether this describing God by
the members of a human body were so much figuratively to be
understood, as with respect to the incarnation of our Saviour, who
was to assume the human nature, and all the members of a. human
body ?”* Asaph, speaking in the person of God (Psalm lxxviii. 1),
' Amirald de Trin. pp. 218. 219. ' Psalm xxxiv. 15. ‘ Isa. li. 9.
‘ Episcnp. institut. ib' iv. § 3. c. 8.
' It in huehieb observation, Tom. H. De Natura Dei, lib. i. c. 4. Then. 9.

