190 cnlumocx ON 'run A'1'1'RIBU'I’E.
“I will open my mouth in parables;” in regard of God it is to be
understood figuratively, but in regard of Christ literally, to whom
it is applied (Matt. xiii. 34, 35); and that apparition (Isa. vi.) which
was the appearance of Jehovah, is a plied to Christ (John xii. 40, 41).
Ati/er the report of the creation, and) the forming of man, we read of
God’s speaking to him, but not of God’s appearing to him in any
visible shapes’ A voice might be formed in the airto give man
notice of his duty; some way of information he must have what
positive laws he was to observe, besides that law which was engra-
ven in his nature, which we call the law of nature; and without a
voice the knowledge of the divine will could not be so conveniently
communicated to man. Though God was heard in a voice, he was
not seen in a sha e; but after the fall we several times read of his
appearing in sucli a form; thougxve read of his speaking before
man’s committing of sin, yet not o is walking, which is more cor-
oreal, till afterwards! “ Though God would not have man believe
him to be corporeal, yet he judged it expedient to give some pre-
notices of that divine incarnation which he had promised.”=
5. Therefore, we must not conceive of the visible Deity accord-
ing tothe letter of such expressions, but the true intent of them.
Though the Scripture speaks of his eyes and arm, yet it denies
them to be “arms of flesh.”b We must not conceive of God
according to the letter, but the design of the metaphor. When
we hear things described by metaphorical expressions, for the
clearing them up to our fancy, we conceive not of them under
that garb, but remove the veil bv an act of our reason. When
Christ is called a sun, a vine, bread, is any so stupid as to conceive
him to be a vine with material branches, and clusters, or be of
the same nature with a loaf Y But the things designed by such
metaphors are obvious to the conception of a mean understand-
ing. If we would conceive God to have a body like a man, because
he describes himself so, we may conceit him to be like a bird,
because he is mentioned with wings;¢ or like a lion, or leopard,
because he likens himwlf to them in the acts of his strength and
fiu'y.‘i He is called a. rock, a horn, fire, to note his strength and
wrath; if an be so stu id as to think God to be really such, they
would make   not only a man but worse than a monster. Onker
los, the Chaldee paraphrast upon parts of the Scriptiue, was so ten-
der of expressing the notion of any corporeity in God, that when
he meets with any expressions of that nature, he translates them
according to the true intent of them; as when God is said to
descend (Gen. xi. 5), which imlplies a local motion, a motion from
one ,place to another, he trans ates it, “And God revealed him-
selfl’ ° We should conceive of God according to the design of the
expressions; when we read of his eyes, we should conceive his
omniscience; of his hand, his power; of his sitting, his immu-
tability; of his throne, his majesty; and conceive of him as sur-
mounting, not only the grossness of bodies, but the spiritual excel-
I Amyrafut, Morale. Tom. I. pp. 298, 294. ' Gen. iii. 8. ° Amirald.
5 Job x. 4. 2 Chron. xxxii. 8 ° Psalm xxxvi. 7. '| Hoa xiii. 'I,&
° lnimon. More Nevoc. par. l. c. 27.

