on eorrs ammo A sruur. 191
lency of the most dignified creatures; something so perfect, greag
spiritual, as nothing can be conceived higher and purer. “ Christ,
saith one, “is truly Deus lyiguratus ; and for his sake, was it more
  permitted to the ews to think of God in the shape of a
man? f
Use. If God be a pure spiritual being, then
1. Man is not the image of God, according to his external bodi-
ly form and figure. The image of God in man consisted not in
what is seen, but in what is not seen; not in the conformation of
the members, but rather in the spiritual faculties of the soul; or,
most of all, in the holy endowments of those faculties (Eph. iv. 24):
“That ye put on the new man, which after God is created in right-
eousnem and true holiness.”s The image which is restored by
redeeming grace,.was the image of God y original nature. The
image of God cannot be in that part which is common to us with
beasts, but rather in that wherein we excel all living creatures, in
reason, understanding, and an immortal spirit. God expressl
saith, that none “saw a similitude” of him (Dent. iv. 15, 16) ; which
had not been true, if man, in regard of his body, had been the im-
age and similitude of God, for then a. Iigiue of God had been seen
evely day, as often as we saw a man or' beheld oiuselves. Nor
wo cl the apostle’s argument stand good (Acts xvii. 29), “That the
Godhead is not like to stone graven by art,” if we were not the
oiispring of God, and bore the stamp of his nature in our spirits
rather than our bodies.” It was a. fancy of Eugubinus, that when
God set u n the actual creation of man, he took a bodily form for
an exemplfr of that which he would express in his work, and there-
fore that the words of Moses* are to be understood of the body of
man; because there was in man such a shape which God had then
assumed. To let alone God’s forming himself 9. body for that
york as a groundless fancy, man can in no wise be said to be the
Image of God, in regard of the substance of his body; but beasts
may as well be said to be made in the image of God, whose bodies
have the same members as the body of man for the most part, and
excel men in the acuteness of the senses and swiitness of their
ll10tl0Il, agility of body, greatness of strength, and in some kind of
lngenuities also, wherein man hath been a scholar to the brutes, and
beholden to their skill. The soul comes nearest the nature of God,
as being a spiritual substance ; vet considered singly, in regard of
its spiritual substance, cannot well be said to bc the image of God;
356681, because of its corporeity, may as well be called the image
9f a man, for there is a greater similitude between man and a brute,
111 the rank of bodies, than there can be between God and the hi gh~
wt angels in the rank of spirits. If it doth not consist in the sub-
lfauce of the soul, much less can it in any similitude of' the body.
This image consisted partly in the state of man, as he had domin-
ion over t e creatures; artly in the nature of man, as he was an
intelligent being, and thereby was capable of havin a grant of
that dominion; but principally in the conformity of tie soul with
' Mores conjectulm Cabaliltica. p. 122. I' Col. iii. 10.
5 Petav. Theol. Dog. Tom. I. lib. ii. c. 1. p. 104. ' Gen. i. 26. '

