192 cmrnnocx on' rms: Arrmserns.
God, in the frame of his spirit, and the holiness of his actions ; not
at all in the figiue and form of his bod , physically, though morally
there might be, as there was a rectitudle in the body as an instru-
ment to conform to the holy motions of the soul, as the holiness of
the soul sparkled in the actions and members of the bodv. If
man were like God because he hath a body, whatsoever hath a
body hath some resemblance to God, and may be said to be in part
his image; but the truth is, the essence of all creaturescannot be
an image of the immense essence of God.
2. If God be a pure Spirit, “it is unreasonable to frame any im-
age or picture of God.”" Some heatlrens have been wiser in this
than some Christians; Pythagoras forbade his scholars to engrave
any sha e of him upon la ring, because he was not to be compre-
hended by sense, but conceived only in our minds: our hands are
as unable to fashion him, as our eyes to see him! The ancient
Romans worshipped their gods one hundred and seventy years
before any material re resentations of them ;"' and the ancient idol~
atrous Germans thouglht it a wicked thing to represent God in a
human shape; yet some, and those no Romanists, labor to defend
the making images of God in the resemblance of man, because he
is so represente in Scripture: “He may be," saith one," “con-
ceived so in our minds, and figured so to our sense." If this were
a good reason, why may he not be pictured as a lion, horn, eagle,
rock, since he is under such metaphors shadowed to us? The
same ground there is for the one as for the other. What though
man be a nobler creature, God hath no more the body of a man
than that of an eagle; and some perfeetions in other creatures
represent some excellencies in his nature and actions which cannot
be figured by a human shape, as stren th b the lion, swiftness and
readiness by the Wings of the bird. %ut god hath absolutely pro-
hibited the making “ any image" whatsoever of him, and that with
terrible threatenings (Exod. xx. 5): “ I, the Lord, am a jealous God,
visiting the ini uities of the fathers upon their children,” and
Deut. v. 8, 9. liter God had given the Israelites the command-
ment wherein he forbade them to have any other gods before him,
he forbids all ifiguring of him by the hand of man;° not only
images, but any likeness of him, either by things in heaven, in the
earth, or in the water. How often doth he discover his indigna-
tion by the prophets, against them that offer to mould him in a crea~
ture form! This law was not to serve a particular dispensation, or
to endure a particular time, but it was a declaration of his will,
invariable in all laces and all times; being founded upon the immu-
table nature of his being. and therefore agreeable to the law of
nature, otherwise not chargeable upon the heathens; and therefore
when God had declared his nature and his works in a stately and
majestic eloquence, he (lCI'D3.l1(.lH of them, “To whom they would
liken him, or what likeness they would compare unto him? " (Isa.
" Inmblic. Protrept. cap. 21. Symb. 24.
| Austin de Civitat. Dei, lib. iv. ca . Sl. out of Varro. U Tanitll.
' Gerhard, loc. Comun. Vol. IV. Exegesis de Natura Dei, cap. S. § I.
' Amyraut. Morale Chrétienne, Tom. I. p. 294.

