on son’s memo A srmrr. 193
xl. 18); where they could ind anything that would be a lively
image and resemblance of his ininite excellency? founding it upon
the infiniteness of his nature, which necessarily implies the spiritu-
ality of it, God is infinitely above an statue: and those that think
to draw God by a stroke of a pencil, or form him by the engrav-
ings of art, are more stupid than the statues themselves. To show
the unreasonableness of xt, consider,
L It is im 'ble to fashion any image of God. If our more
eapacious soxxnot grzmp his nature, our weaker sense cannot
frame his image; it is more possible, of the two, to comprehend
l1iminourminds,thanto&amehimina.nimagetooursense. He
inhabits inaccessible light; as it is impossible for the eye of man to
see him, it is impossible for the art of man to paint him u nwalls,
and carve him out of wood. None knows him but hi1nseli?i)1one can
describe him but himseliv Can we draw a igure of our own souls, and
expres that part of ourselves, wherein we are most like to God?
Can we extend this to any bodily H , and divide it into parts?
How canwe deal so with the original copy, whence the irst draught
of our souls was taken, and which is infinitely more spiritual than
menorangels? No corporeal thing can represent a spi ` l sub-
stance; there is no proportion in nature between them. God is a
simple, infinite, immense, eternal, invisible, incorruptible being; a
statue is a compounded, finite, limited, temporal, visible, and cor-
mptible body:) God is a livin spirit; but a statue nor sees, nor
hells not perceives anything. §But suppose God had a body, it is
Impossible to mould an image of it in t e true glory of that body;
anlhe statue of an excellent monarch represent the majesty and
lit of his countenance, though made by the skilfullest Workman in
the world? If God had a. body in some measure suited to his ex-
eellency, were it possible for man to make an exact image of him,
who cannot icture th ight, heat, motion, magnitude, and dazzling
merty of sie sun? The excellency of any corporeal nature of the
creature, the temper, instinct, artifice, are beyond the power of
Harving tool; much more is GodQ
2. To make any corporeal representations of God is unworthy of
God. It is a di  to his nature. Whosoever thinks a. carnal
00l'mptible image to be fit for a representation of God, renders God
H0 better than a carnal and a corporeal being. It is a kind of de-
liiing an angel, who is a spiritual nature, -to represent him in a
blldily shape, who is as far removed from any flesh iness as heaven
fmlll earth; much more to de ade the glo of the divine nature
10 the lineaments of a man. 1 llihe whole sto; of images is but a lie
of God (Jer. x. 8, 14); a doctrine of Vanities and falsehood ; it rep-
Ments him in a false garb to the world, and sinks his glo into that
Olii corruptible Cl‘68l7U.l‘6.‘l It impairs the reverence of ghd in the
minds of men, and by degrees may debase men’s a prehensions of
600, and be a means to make them believe he is sms; a one as them-
Elves; and that not being free from the figure, he is not also free from
llltynperfections of tne bodiesf) Corporeal images of God were the
fruxtsof baseimaginations of him; and as they sprung from them, so
'C0°eeiusSum.Theol.e.9.p.4'I.§85. °lBnm.i.25. 'Rom.i.22.
vol.. L*13
-f ww

