194 crnnuocx ON rms: srrnmvrns.
they contribute to a greater corruption of the notions of the divine ns-
ture : the heathens begun their first representations of him by the image
of a corru tible man, then of birds, till they descended not only to
‘four-footeci) beasts but creeping things, even serpents, as the apostle
seems to intimate in his enumeration (Rom. i. 23): it had been more
honorable to have continued in human representations of him, than
have sunk so low as beasts and serpents, the baser images; though the
first had been infinitely unworthy of him, he being more above a man,
though the noblest creature, than man is above a worm, a toad, or
the most despicable creepin thing upon the earth. To think we
can make an image of God of a piece of marble, or an ingot of
gold, is a greater debasing of him, than it would be of a eat
prince, if you should represent him in the statue of a frog. Vghen
the Israelites re resented God by a calf, it is said “they sinned a
great sin” (Exodi xxxii. 31): and the sin of Jeroboam, who intended
only a representation of God by the calves at Dan and Bethel, is
called more emphatically; “the wickedness of your wickedness,”
the very scum and dregsof wickedness. As men debased God by
this, so God debased men for this; he degraded the Israelites into
captivity, under the worst of their enemies, and punished the hea-
thens with spiritual judgments, as uncleanness through the lusts of
their own hearts (Rom. i. 24); which is repeated again in other ex-
pressions (ver. 26, 27), as a meet recompense for their disgracin the
spiritual nature of God. Had God been like to man, they had not
oifended in it; but I mention this, to show aprobable reason of those
base lusts which are in the midst of us, that have scarce been ex-
ceeded by any nation, viz., the unworthy and unspiritual conceits of
God, which are as much a debasing of him as material images were
when they were more rife in 'the world; and may be as well the
cause of s iritual judgments upon men, as the worshipping molten
and carved images were the cause of the same upon the heathen.
3. Yet this is natural to man. Wherein we may see the contra-
riety of man to God. Though God be a Spirit, dyet there is nothing
man is more prone to, than to represent him un er a corporeal form.
The most famous guides of the heathen world have fas ioned him,
not onl according to the more honorable images of men, but best-
ialized him in the form of a brute. The Egyptians, whose country
was the school of learning to Greece, were notoriousl guilty of this
brutishness in worshi ping an ox for an image of their God; and
the Philistines their lliagon, in a figure composed of the image of a
woman and a 'fish :' such representations were ancient in the ori-
ental arts. The gods of Laban, that he accuseth Jacob of stealing
from him, are supposed to be little figures of men." Such was the
Israelites’ golden calf; their worship was not terminated on the
f' image, but they worshipped the true God under that representation;
Ethey could not be so brutish as to call a calf their deliverer, and give
,him so great a title (“These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought'
'thee up out of the land of Egypt,’ Exod. xxxii. 4): or that which
they knew belonged to the true God, “the God of Abraham, Isaac,
° Hoa. x. 16. * Daillé, super Cor. i. 10, Ser. HI.
" Gen xxxi. 80-84.

