ON Gon‘s BEING A srmrr. 195
and Jacob.”* They knew the calf to be formed of their ear~rings,
but they had consecrated it to God as a representation of him;
though the chose the form of the Egyptian idol, yet they knew
that A is, gsiris, and Isis, the gods of the Egyptians adored in that
Hgll.l'8,Y1&d not wrought their redemption from bondage, but would
have used their force, had they been ossessed of any, to have kept
them under the 'oke, rather than have fifeed them from it; the feast also
which they celehrated before that image, is called b Aaron the feast of
the Lord (Exod. xxxii. 5); a feast to Jehovah, the incornmunicable
name of the creator of the world; it is therefore evident, that both the
(plriest and the people pretended to serve the true God, not an false
'vinity of Egypt; that God who had rescued them from ggypt,
with a mighty hand, divided the Red Sea before them, destroyed
their enemies, conducted them, fed them by miracle, spoken to them
from Mount Sinai, and amazed them by his thunderings and light-
nings when he instructed them by his law; a God whom they could
not so soon forget. And with this representing God by that image,
they are charged by the Psalmist (Psalm cvi. 19, 20), “ the made
a calf in Horeb, and changed their glory into a similitude ofy an ox
that eateth grass :" they changed their glory, that is, God, the glory
of Israel; so that they took this figure for the image of the true
God of Israel, their own God; not the God of any other nation in
the world. J eroboam intended no other by his calves, but symbols
of the presence of the true God; instead of the ark and the propi-
tiatory which remained among the J ews. We see the inclination of
our natures in the ractice of the Israelites; a people chosen out of
the whole world tolbear up God’s name, and preserve his glory; and
in that the images of God were so soon set up; in the Christian
church; and to this day, the picture of God, in t e shape of an old
man, is visible in the temple of the Romanists. It is prone to the
nature of man,
_ 4. To re resent God by a corporeal image; and to worship him
in and by that image, is idolatry. Though the Israelites did not ac-
knowledge the calf to be God, nor inten ed a worship to any of the
Egyptian deities by it; but worshi ped that God in it, who had so
lately and miraculously delivered them from a cruel servitude; and
could not in natural reason judge him to be clothed with a bodily
shape, much less to be like an ox that eat/sth grass; yet the a ostle
brinvs no less a charge against them than that of idolatry (1 Cldr. x.
7); he calls them idolaters, who before that calf kept a feast to Je-
hovah, citing Exod. xxxii. 5. Suppose we coul make such an
1II1Z\g€ of God as might rfectly represent hi ~ yet since God hath
prohibited it, shall we hi wiser than God ??He hath sufficiently
manifested himself in his works without images: He is seen in the
treatures, more particularly in the heavens, which declare his glory.
His works are more excellent representations of him, as being the
works of his own hands, than anything that is the product of the
art of man. His glory sparkles in the heavens, sun, moon, and
liars, as being magnificent pieces of his wisdom and power; yet the
klming the hand to the sun or the heavens, as representatives of the
I Gen.   ie, 17.

