196 cnanuocz ON rm: Arrnrsurns.
excelleney and majesty of God, is idolatry in Scri ture account, and
a denial of God;Y a prostituting the glory of (iiod to a creature.
Either the worship is terminated on the image itself, and then it is
confessed by all to be idolatry, because it isa giving that worship to a
creature which is the sole right of God, or not terminated in the
image, but in the object represented by it; it is then a foolish thing;
we may as well terminate our worship on the true object without,
as with an image! An erected statue is no sign or symbol of God’s
special presence, as the ark, tabernacle, temple were. It is no part
of divine institution; has no authority of a command to support it;
no cordial of a promise to encourage it; and the image bein infi-
nitely distant from, and below the majesty and spirituality oig God,
cannot constitute one object of worship with him. To put a reli-
gious character upon any image forme by the corrupt imagination
of man, as a. representation of the invisib e and spiritual Deity, is to
think the Godhead to be like silver and gold, or stone graven by
art and man’s device!
III. This doctrine will direct us in our conceptions of God, as a
pure perfect Spirit, than which nothing can be imagined more per-
ect, more pure, more spiritual.
1. \Ve cannot have an adequate or suitable conception of God:
He dwells in inaccessible light; inaccessible to the acuteness of our
fancy, as _well as the weakness of our sense. If we could have
thoughts of him, as hi h and excellent as his nature, our conceptions
must be as infinite as his nature. All our imaginations of him can-
not represent him, because every created species is finite; it cannot
therefore represent to us a full and substantial notion of an infinite
Being. We cannot s eak or think worthily enough of him, who is
greater than our wordis, vaster than our understandin . Whatso-
ever we speak or think of God, is handed first to us Ty the notice
we have of some perfection in the creature, and explains to us some
pprticular excellency of God, rather than the fulness of his essence.
o creature, nor al creatures together, can furnish us with such a
magnificent notion of God, as can give us a clear view of him. Yet
Go in his word is pleased to step below his own excellency, and
point us to those excellencies in his works, whereby we may ascend
to the knowledge of those excellencies which are in his nature. But
the creatures, whence we draw our lessons, being finite, and our un-
derstandings being finite, it is utterly impowible to have a notion of
God commensurate to the immensity and spirituality of his being.
“God is not like to visible creatures, nor is there any roportion
between him and the most s iritual.”b We cannot have ahill notion
of a spiritual nature, much liess can we have of God, who is a Spirit
above spirits. No s irit can clearly represent him: the angels, that
are great s irits, are bounded in their extent, Hnite in their being, and
of a mutable nature. Yet though we cannot have a suitable con-
ception of God, we must not content ourselves without any concep-
tion of him. It is o\u- sin not to endeavor after a true notion of
I Job xxxi. 26-28. Chin. Predict. Part II. p. 252. ‘
I Lawson, Body Divin. p. 161. ° Acta xvii. 20.
‘ Amyrnut. Morale. Tom. I p. 289.

