on cons name A srrsrr. 197
him: it is our sin to rest in a mean and low notion ofhim, when our
reason tells us we are capable of having higher: but if we ascend as
high m we can, though we shall then come short of a suitable notion
of him, this is not our sin, but our weakness. God is infinitely
superior to the choicest conceptions, not onl of a sinner, but of a
creature. lf all conceptions o God -below the truenature of God
were sin, there is not a holy angel in heaven free from sin; because,
though they are the most ca acious creatures, yet they cannot have
such a notion of an iniinite geing as is fully suitable to his nature,
unlau the were infinite as he himself is. °
2. But, liowever, we must by no means conceive of God under a
human or corporeal shape. Since we cannot have conceptions hon-
orable enough for his nature, we must take heed we entertain not
any which may debase his nature; tho h we cannot comprehend
hirnasheis, we must be careful notto`l§ncyhim to bewhatheis
not. It is a vain thinglto conceive him with human lineaments: we
~ mustthink higher of im than to ascribe to him so mean a shape:
we deny his spirituality when we fancy himunder such a form. He
is spiritual, and between that which is s iritual and that which is
corporeal, there is no resemblance! Incieed, Daniel saw God in a
human form (Dan. vii. 9): “ The,Ancient of days did sit, whose gar-
ment was white as snow, and the hairs of his head like pure wool :”
he is described -as comi to judgment; it is not meant of Christ
probably, because Christn?ver. 13) is called the Son of Man comin
nan' to the Ancient of days. This is not the proper shape of Goxf
for no man hath seen his shape. It was a vision wherein such rep-
resentations were made, as were accommodated to the inward sense
of Daniel; Daniel saw him in a rapture or ecstacy, wherein outward
senses are of no use. God is described, not as he is in himself, of a
human ibrm, but in regard of hisitness to judge: “white,” notes
the puri and simplicity of the Divine nature; “Ancient of days,”
in regnr? of his eternity; “white hair," in regard of his rudence
and wisdom, which is more eminent in age than youth, ami) more fit
to discern causes and to distinguish between right and wrong.
Visions are riddles, and must not be understood in a literal sense.
We are to watch against such determirtate conceptions of God. Vain
imaginations do easily infest us; tinder will not sooner take fire than
our natures kindle into wrong notions of the Divine Majesty. We
are very apt to fashion a god like ourselves; we must thereibre look
upon such representations -of God, as accommodated to mu' weak-
nx: and no more think them to be literal descriptions of God, as
he is in himself, than we will think the image -of the sim in the water,
to be the true sun in the heavens. We may, indeed, conceive of
Christ as man, who hath in heaven the vestment of our nature, and
is Deus figwratua, though we cannotconceive the godhead under a
human shape.
1. To havesuch afancyistodkparage andw'rongG~od. Acor-
poreal ihncyof God is asridiculous in itself, and as injurious to God,
s a wooden statue. The caprices of our imagination are often more
myslezigug than the images .which are the works of art; itis as irre-
° Episco. Institut. lib. iv. § 2. c. 10.

