198 cruumocx on mn Arrsmurns.
ligious to measure God’s essence by our line, his perfections by our
imperfections, as to measme his thoughts and actmgs by the weak-
ness and unworthiness of our own. This is to limit an infinite es-
sence, and pull him down to our scanty measures, and render that
which is unconceivably above us, equal with us. It is impossible we
can conceive God after the manner of a body, but we must bring him
down to the proportion of a bodfy, which is to diminish his glory,
and stoop him be ow the dignity o his nature. God is a pure Spirit,
he hath nothing of the nature and tincture of a. body; whosoever,
therefore, conceives of him as having a.   form, though he fancy
the most beautiful and comely body, instea of owning his di ity,
detracts from the super-eminent excellency of his nature and Tiiess-
edness. When men fancy God like themselves in their corporeal
nature, they will soon make a grogress, and ascribe to him their
corru t nature; and while they c othe him with their bodies, invest
him Sao in the inhrmities of them. God is a jealous God, very sen-
sible of any disgrace, and will be as much incensed against an inward
idolatry as an outward: that command which forbade corporeal
imagesgi would not indulge carnal imaginations; since the nature of
God is as much wronged y unworthy images, erected in the fancy,
as by statues carved out of stone or metals: one as well as the other
is a deserting of our true spouse, and committing adulte ; one with
a material ` and the other with a carnal notion of   Since
God hmb H to our apprehensions, we should not debase
him in thinking him to be that m his nature, which he makes only
a resemblance of himself to us.
2. To have such fancies of God, will obstruct and pollute our
worship of him. How is it possible to give him a right worship, of
whom we have so deba.sin(g a notion? We shall never think a cor-
poreal deity worthy of a edication of our spirits. The hating in-
struction, and casting God’s word behind the back, is charged upon
the im ` ation the had, that “God was such a one as themselves”
(Psalmaliufl7, 21). idany of the wiser heathens did not judge their
statues to he their gods, or their gods to be like their statues; but
suited them to their politic designs; and jud d them a good inven-
tion to keep pee le within the bounds of oidience and devotion,
by such visxb e Egures of them, which might imprint a reverence
and fear of those gods upon them; but these are alse measlues; a
despised and undervalued God is not an object of petition or affec-
tion. Who would address seriously to a God he has low a prehen-
sions of? The more raised thoughts we have of him, the vil)er sense
we shall have of ourselves; they would make us humble and selfl
abhorrent in our supplications to him (Job xlii. 6): “wherefore I
lbhor myself;” &c.
3. Though we must not conceive of God, as of a human or cor-
poreal shape; et we cannot think of God, without some reflection
upon our own being. We cannot conceive him to be an intelligent
being, but we must make some comparison between him and our
own understanding natme to come to a knowled of him. Since
we are enclosed in bodies we apprehend nothing giit whatcomes in
4 Exod. xx. 4.
1

