on con’s sums A srrarr. 199
by sense, and what we in some sort measure by sensible olgjects
And in the consider ation of those things which we desire to abstract
from sense, we are fain to make use of the assistance of sense and
visible things: and therefore when we frame the highest notion,
there viill be some similitude of some corporeal thing in our fancy;
and tho h we would spiritualize our thoughts, and aim at a more
slsuactzd and raised understanding, yet there will be some dregs
of matter sticking to our conceptions; yet we still judge by argument
and reasoning, what the thing is we think of under those material
images. A corporeal image will follow us, a.s~the shadow doth the
body! While we are in the body, and surrounded with fleshly
matter, we cannot think of things without some help irom corporeal
representations: something of sense will interpose itself in our purest
conceptions of spiritual things ;f for the 'faculties which serve for
conmmplation, are either corporeal, as the sense and fancy, or so
allied to them, that nothing passes into them but by the organs of
the body; so that there is a natural inclination to figiue nothing but
under a corporeal notion, till by an attentive application of the mind
and reason to the object thought upon, we separate that which is
bodily from that which is spiritual, and by degrees ascend to that
true notion of that we think upon, and would have a due conception
of in our mind. Therefore God tempers the declaration of himself
to our weakness, and the condition ot our natures. He condescends
toour littleness and narrown hen he declares himself by the
similitude of bodil members. §As the li ht of the sun is tempered,
and diifuseth itselfyto our sense rou h the air and vapors, that our
weak eyes may not be too much dazzid with it; without it we could
not know or judge of the sun, because we could have no use of our
sense, which we must have before we can judge of it in our under-
standing; so we are not able to conceive of spiritual beings in the
purity of their own nature, without such a temperament, and such
shadows to usher them into our mindsé) And therefore.we find the
Spirit of God accommodates himself our contracted and teddered
capacities, and uses such expressions of God as are suited to us in
this state of flesh wherein we are. And therefore because 'we cannot
apprehend God in the simplicity of his own being, and his undivided
mence, he draws the representations of himself from several crea-
tures and several actions of those creatures: as sometimes he is said
to be angry, tn walk, to sit, to ily; not that we should rest in such
conceptions of him, but take our rise from this foundation, and such
perfections in the creatures, to mount up to a knowledge of God’s
nature by those several steps, and conceive of him by those divided
excellencies, because we cannot conceive of him in the purity of his
own mme. We cannot possibly think or speak of God, unless
we transfer the names of created perfections to him gs' yet we are to
conceive of them in a higher manner when we apply them to the
Divine nature, than when we consider them in the several creatures
lbrmally, exceeding those perfections and excellencies which are in
the cream;-3, and in a more excellent manner: “ as one saith, though
»y“;m,¢_ ' Amynut, lox-ale, Tcm. I. p. 180, ibn. I Lenin.
I--1-

