200 csumocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
we cannot comprehend God without the help of such resemblance?
yet we may, without making an image of him; so that inability o
ours excuseth those apprchensions ot him from any way otfendin
against his Divine nature.”\1 These are not notions so much suiteg
to the nature of God as the Weakness of man. They are helps to our
meditations, but ought. not to be formal conceptions of him. We
may assist ourselves in -om' apprehensions of him, by considering the
subtilty and spirituality of air; and considering the members of a
body, without thinking him to be air, or to have ang' corporeal mem-
ber. Our reason tells us, that whatsoever is a bo y, is limited and
bounded; and the notion of infiniteness and bodiliness, cannot agree
and consist together: - and therefore what is offered by our fancy
should be purified by our reason.
4. Therefore we are to elevate and refine all our notions of God,
and spiritualize our conoe tions of him. Every man is to have a
conception of God; therefgre he ought to have one of the highest
elevation. Since we cannot have a full notion of him, we should
endeavor to make it as high and as pure as we can. Though we can-
not conceive of God, but some corporeal representations or images in
our minds will be conversant with us, as motes in the air when we
look upon the heavens, yet our conceptions may and must rise
higher. As when we see.the dra ht of the heavens and earth in a
globe, or a kingdom in a map, it hkblps our conceptions, but doth not
terminate them: we conceive them to be of a vast extent, far beyond
that short description of them. So we should endeavor to refine
every representation of God, to rise higher and higher, and have our
apprehensions still more purified; separating the perfect from the
imperfect, casting away the one, and greatening the other; conceive
him to be a Spirit diifused through all, containing all, perceivin all.
All the perfections of God are intlnitely elevated above the exccilen-
cies of the creatures; above whatsoever can be conceived by the clear~
est and most piercing understanding. The nature of God as a Spirit is
infinitely superior to whatsoever we can conceive perfect in the notion
of a created spirit. Whatsoever God is, he is inhnitely so: he is inti-
nite Wisdom, infinite Goodness, infinite Knowledge, inhnite Power,
infinite Spirit; infinitely distant from the weakness of creatures,
infinitely mounted above the excellencies of creatures: as easy to be
known that he is, as im ossible to be comprehended what he is.
Conceive of him as excellent, without any imperfection; a S irit
without parts; great without quantity ; perfect without quality;
everywhere without place; powerful without members; understand-
ing without i norance; wise without reasoning; light without dark-
ness; infinitely more excelling the beauty of all creatures, than the
light in the sun, ure and unviolated, exceeds the splendor of the
sun dispersed ami) divided through a cloudy and misty air: and when
you have risen to the highest, conceive him yet infinitely above all
you can conceive of spirit, and acknowledge the iniirmity of your
own minds. And whatsoever conce tion comes into your minds,
lay, This is not God; God is more than this: if I could conceive
\ Towerson on the Commandments, p. -118.

