on sons name A srmrr. 201
him, he were not God; for God' is incomprehensibly above whatso
ever I can say, whatsoever I can think and conceive of him.
Irtferevwe 1. If God be a Spirit, no corporeal thing can dehle  
Some bring an argument agamst the omnipresence of God, that it is
adispangement to the Divine essence to be eve where, in nasty
cottages as well as beautiful palaces and  temples. What
phcecandefile a ` `t? Is light, which a roachesto the nature
of irit, polluted?ynshining upon a dunghillf) or a sunbeam tainted
  upon a quagmire? Doth an angel contract any soil, by
mapping into a nasty rison to deliver Peter? What can steam from
the most noisome bode' to pollute the spiritual nature of God? As
heis “of purer eyes than to behold ini<{1uity,”i so he is of a more
` 'tual substance than to contract any p ysical pollution from the
Q where he doth diifuse himselfl -Did our Saviour, who had a.
true body, derive an taint from-the lepers he touched, the diseases
he cured, or the devii he expelled? God is a pure Spirit; plungeth
himself into no filth; is dashed with no spot by being present with
all bodies. Bodies only receivedeiilement from bodies. /
liyi-nmoe 2. If God be a. Spi1'it, he is active and communicative. He
i not clogged with heavy and sluggish matter, which is cause of du1~
nm and inactivity. The more subtle, thin, and approaching nearer the
nature of a spirit anything is, the more diifusive it is. Air is a gliding
substance; spreads itself through all 'ons, pierceth into all bodies; it
fills the space between heaven and egg; there is nothing but partakes
ofthe virtue of it.. Light, which is an emblem of spirit, insinuates itself
into all places, refresheth all things. As spirits are fuller, so they are
more overflowing, more piercing, more operative than bodies. The
Egyptian horses were weak things, because they were “ flesh, and not
spirit.”* The soul being a spirit, conveys more to the bodyvthan the
body can to it. What cannot so- great a spirit do for us? hat can-
not ao great a. spirit work in us? God, bemg a slpligrit above all spirits,
can pierce into the centre of all spirits; make ` way into the most
secret recesses; stamp what he (pleases. It is no more to him to t1u'n
our spirim, than to make a wil emess become waters, and speak a
chaos into a beautiful frame of heaven and earth. He can act our
souls with iniinite more ease than our souls can aetour bodies; he
can fix in us what motions, frames, inclinations he pleases; he can
come and settlein our hearts with all   It is an en-
couragement to confide in him, when we petition him for spiritual
blessings: as he is a spirit, he is possessed with “spiritual blessings."
A spirit delights to bestow thing? suitable to its nature, as bodies do
to communicate what is agreea le, to theirs. As he is a Father of
` ' we may go tohim orthe welfare of our spirits; -he being a
§irnitTisasabetore_pairour iritsashewas to create them. As
heh a Spirit, he is mdefatigisllle in acting. The members of the.
body tire and flag; but who ever heard of a soul wearied with being
active? wh ever 1? In the purest simplicity,
there is greatesgnpower, the most e caeious goodness, the most
hashing justice to eetqthe spirit, that can insinuate itself every
Inertia. rnamia. |Eph.i.@.

