202 cmnuocx ON THE A'rrnmU'rns.
where to punish wickedness without wearinws, as well as to comfort
oodness. God is active, because he is spirit; and if we be like to
éod, the more spiritual we are, the more active we shall be.
Ingerence 3. God being a Spirit, is immortal. His being immortal,
and eing invisible, are joined together.'° Spirits are in their nature
incorruptible; they can only perish by that and that framed them.
Every compounded thing is subject to mutation; but God, being a
pure and sim le Spirit, is without corruption, without any shadow
of change." glfhere there is composition, there is some kind of re-
pugnancy of one part against the other; and where there is repug-
nancy, there is a capability of dissolution. God, in regard of his
infinite spirituality, ath nothing in his own nature contrary to it;
can have nothing in himself which is not himself The world r-
ishes; friends change and are dissolved; bodies moulder, because they
are mutable. God is a S irit in the highest excellency and glory of
spirits; nothing is beyond him; nothing above him; no contrariety
within him. 'l‘his is our comfort, if we devote ourselves to him;
this God is our God; this Spirit is our Spirit; this is our all, our
immutable, om' incorruptible support; a Spuit that cannot die and
leave us.
Inference 4. If God be a Spirit, we see how we can only converse
with him by our spirits. Bodies and spirits are not suitable to one
another: we can onl see, know, embrace a spirit with our spirits.
He judges not of us by our corporeal actions, nor our external de-
votionslby our masks and disguises: he fixes his eye upon the frame
of the heart, bends his ear to the groans of our spirits. He is not
pleased with outward pomp. He is not a body ; therefore the beauty
of temples, delicacy o sacrifices, fumes of incense, are not grateful
to him; by those, or any external action, we have no communion
with him. A spirit, when broken, is his delightful sacrince ;° we must
therefore, have our spirits fitted for him, “be renewed in the spirit
of our rninds,”P that we may be in a posture to live with him, and
have an intercourse with him. We can never be united to God but in
our spirits: bodies unite with bodies, spirits with spirits. The more
spiritual anything is, the more closely doth it unite. Air hath the
c osest union; nothing meets together sooner than that, when the
parts are divided by the interposition of a body.
Inference 5. If God be a Spirit, he can only be the true satisfaction
of our spirits: spirit can only be Hlled with spirit: content Hows
from likeness and suitableness. As we have a resemblance to God
in regard of the spiritual nature of our soul, so we can have no satf
isfaction but in him. Spirit can no more be really satisfied with that
which is corporeal, than a. beast can delight in the company of an
angel. Corporeal things can no more 611 a hun spirit, than pure
spirit can feed an hungry body. God, the hi ileyst spirit, can only
reach out a full content to our spirits. Man islord of the creation:
nothing below him can be fit for his converse; nothing above him
oifers itself to his converse but God. We have no correspondence
with angels. The influence they have upon us, the protection they
' 1 Tim. i. 17. ° James i. 17. ° Psalm li. 17. I Eph. iv. 28.
,4-
R

