ON eon's BEING A srmrr. 203
afford us, is secret and undiseerned; but God, the highest Spirit,
offem himself to us in his Son, in his ordinances, is visible in every
creature, plresents himself to us in every providence; to him we must
seek; in 'm we must rest. God had no rest from the creation till
he had made man; and man can have no rest in the creation till he
rests in God. God only is our dwelling lplace ;‘1 our souls should
only long for him :f our souls should on y wait upon him. The
spirit of man never riseth to its original g ory, till be carried up
on the wings of faith and love to its original cop _ ¢&'he face of the
soul looks most beautiful, when it is turned to the ace of God, the
Father of spirits; when the derived spirit is fixed upon the original
Spirit, drawigg from it life and glory) Spirit is only the receptacle
ot spirit. G , as Spirit, is our principle; we must therefore live
upon him. God, as Spirit, hath some resemblance to us as his image;
we must, therefore, only satisfy ourselves in him.
Inference 6. If God be a Spirit, we should take most care of that
wherein we are like to God. Spirit is nobler than body; we must,
therefore, value our spirits above our bodies. The soul, as spirit,
partakes more of the divine nature, and deserves more of our choieest
cares. If we have any love to this Spirit, we should have a real affec-
tion to our own spirits, as bearing a stamp of the spiritual Divinity,
the chiefest of all the works of Go ; as it is said of behemoth (J ob xl.
19). That which is most the image of this immense spirit, should
be our darlin ; so David calls his soul (Psalm xxxv. 17 ). Shall we
take care of iiat wherein we partake not of God, and not delight in
the jewel which hath his own signature upon it? God was not only
the Framer of spiri, and the End of spirits; but the Copy and Ex-
emplar of spirits. God artakes of no corporeity; he is pure Spirit.
But how do we act, as itp we were only matter and body! We ave
but little kindness for this great Spirit as well as our own, if we take
no care of his immediate offspring, since he is not only Spirit, but
the Father of s irits.'
Inference 7. I§ God be a Spirit, let us take heed of those sins which
are spiritual. Paul distinguisheth between the filth of the flesh, and
that of the spirit! By the one we detile the body; by the other
we detile the spirit, which, in regard of its nature, is of kin to the
Creator. To wrong one who is near of kin to a prince, is worse
than to injure an inferior subject. When we make our spirits, which
are most like to God in their nature, and framed according to his
image, a stage to act vain imaginations, wicked desires, and unclean
afections, we wrong God in the excellency of his work, and reflect
upon the nobleness of the pattern ; we wrong him in that part where
he hath stam ed the most signal character of his own s iritual na-
ture; we de’dl)e that whereby we have onl converse with him as a
Spirit, which he hath ordered more immediately to represent him in
this nature, than all corporeal things in the world can, and make
that Spirit with whom we desire to be joined unfit for such a knot.
God’s spirituality is the root of his other perfections. We have al-
ready heard he could not be ininite, omnipresent, immutable, without
‘P||.lmxc.l. 'P||\lm1xiii.1. °Heb.xii.9. ‘2CoI'.vii.l.

