DISCOURSE IV.
ON SPIRITUAL WORSHIP.
Jon v.S4.-God is a Spirit: md they that worship him must worship him in lpirll
and in truth.
HAVING thus despatched the nrst proposition, “ God is a Spirit,”
it will not be amiss to handle the inference our Saviour makes from
that pro ition, which is the second observation propounded.
Duct. Tint the worslip due from us to God ou ht to be spiritual,
and spiritually- perform _ Spirit and truth are 'l111(§€l'81300d variously.
We are to worship God,
1. Not by legal ceremonies. The evangelical administration being
called spirit, in opposition to the legal ordinances as carnal; an
truth in opposition to them as typical. .As the whole J udaical ser-
vice is called Hesh, so the whole evangelical service is called spirit;
or spirit may be opposed to the worship at Jerusalem, as it was car-
nal; truth, to the worship on the Mount Gerizim, because it was
false. They had not the true object of worship, nor the true medium
of worship as those at Jerusalem had. Their worship should cease,
because it was false; and the Jewish worship should cease, because
itwas carnal. There is no need of a candle when the sim spreads
his beams in the air; no need of those ceremonies when the Sun of
righteousness appeared; they only served for candles to instruct and
direct men till the time of his coming. The shadows are chased
away by displaying the substance, so that theylcan be of no more
Mein e wors `p of God, since the end for w 'ch they were insti-
tilted is ex ired; and that discovered to us in the gospel, which the
-lewssouglil for in vain among the baggage and stuff of their cer-
emomes.
2. With a spiritual and sincere bame. In spirit, i. e. with spirit;
with the inward operations of all the faculties of our souls, and the
mam and flower of them; and the reason is, because there o ht
to be a worship suitable to the nature of God; and as the woriiip
was to be spiritual, so the ,exercise of that worship ought to be in a
Spiritual manner! It -shall be a worship “in truth,” because the
irue God shall be adored without those vain imaginations and fau-
iastic resemblances of him,Y which were common among the blind
Gentiles, and contrary to the glorious nature of God, and unworthy
lllgredients in religious services. It shall be a worshi “in spirit, ’
without those carnal rites the degenerate Jews rested) on; such a
» nsgma. rar. ir. p.'1’1'1. 1 'r¢y1°r'. mempiu, Preface, § so.

