\
206 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
posture of soul which is the life and ornament of every service G0d
ooks for at your hands. There must be some proportion between
the object adored, and the manner in which we adore it; it must
not be a mere corporeal worship, because God is not a body; but it
must rise from the centre of our soul, because God is a Spirit. If
he were a body, a bodily worship might suit him, images might be
fit to represent him; but being a Spirit, our bodily services enter us
not into communion with him. Bein a spirit, we must banish h~om
our minds all carnal imaginations oig him, and separate from our
wills all cold and dissembled affections to him. We must not only
have a loud voice, but an elevated soul; not only a bended knee,
but a broken heart; not only a supplicating tone, but a groaning
spirit; not only a ready ear or the word, but a receiving heart; an
t is shall be o greater value with him, than the most costly outward
services oifered at Gerizim or Jerusalem. Our Saviour certain ly
meant not by worship ing in spirit, only the matter of the evange -
ical service, as opposed) to the legal administration, without the man-
ner wherein it was to be performed. It is true, God always sought
a woishi in spirit; he expected the heart of the worshipper should
join with his instituted rights of adoration in every exercise_ of
them; but he expects such a carriage more under the gospel admin-
istration, because of. the clearer discoveries of his nature made in it,
and the greater assistances conveyed by it.
I shall, therefore, 1. Lay down some general propositions. 2. Show
what this spiritual worship is. 3. Why we must offer to God a spiritual
service. 4. The use.
1. Some general propositions.
Prop I. The right exercise of worship is founded ugpn, and riseth
from, the spirituality of God! The first ground of e worship we
render to God, is the infinite excellency of his nature, which is not
only one attribute, but results from all; for God, as God, is the
object of worship; and the notion of God consists not in thinking
him wise, good, just, but all those infinitely beyond any conception ,
and hence it follows that God is an object infinitely to be loved and
honored. His goodness is sometimes spoken of in Scripture as a
motive of our homage (Psalm cxxx. 4); “'l‘here is forgiveness with
thee that thou mayest be feared.” Fear, in the Scripture dialect, signi-
fies the “whole worship of God” (Acts x. 35): but in every nation,
“he that fears him” is accepted of him! If God should act towards
men according to the rigors of his justice due to them for the least
of their crimes, there could be no exercise of any alfection but that
of despair, which could not engender a worship of God, which ought
to be joined with love, not with hatred. The beneficence and patience
of God, and his readiness to pardon men, is the reason of the honor
they return to him; and this is so evident a motive, that generally
the idolatrous world ranked those creatures in the number of their
gods, which they perceived useful and beneficial to mankind, as the
sun and moon, the Egyptians the ox, &c. And the more beneficial
anything appeared to mankind, the higher station men gave it in the
rank of their deities, and bestowed a. more peculiar and solemn wor-
lAmeaMedul.lib.ii.o.4.§20. ‘So2King|xvii. $2,238.

