on srmrruat wonsmr. 207
hip upon it. Men worship};-2; God to procure and continue his
hvor, which would not have n acted by them, had they not con-
ceived it apleasing thing to him to be merciful and gracious. Some-
times his justice is (proposed to us as a motive of worship (Heb. xii.
28, 29): “Serve Go with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a
consuming iire ;” which includes his holiness, whereby he doth hate
Sin, aswell as his wrath, whereby he doth punish it. Who but a
mad and totally brutish (person, or one that was resolved to make
varagainst heaven, coul behold the effects of God’s anger in the
world, consider him in his justice as a “consuming fire,” and despise
him, and rather be drawn out by that consideration to blasihem
anddespair, than to seek all ways to ap him? Now ougll
the infinite power of God, his u.usp\eakalile wisdom, his incom re-
hensible goodness, the holiness of is nature, the vigilance ofp his
providence, the bounty of his hand,   to man that he should
ove and honor him, and are the motives of worship; yet the spirit-
ualitv of his nature is the rule of worship, and directs us to render
our duty to him with all the powers of our soul. As his (goodness
beamsoutuponus, worship is due in justice to him; an asheis
themost excellent nature, veneration is due to him in the highest
manner with the choicest affections. So that indeed the spirituality
of God comes chiefly into consideration in matter of W0l'Sl'11PZ all his
perfections are grounded upon this: he could not be infinite, immu-
table, omniscient, if he were a corporeal being ;\' we cannot give him
a worship unless we judge him worthy, excellent, and deserving a
worship at our hands; and we cannot judge him worthy of a wor-
ship, unless we have some apprehensions and admirations of his
intinite virtues; and we cannot apprehend and admire those erfec-
tions, but as we see them as causes shining in their eifeets. IlVhen
we see, therefore, the frame of the world to be the work of his
power, the order of the world to be the fruit of his wisdom, and the
usefulnem of the world to be the product of his goodness, we find
the motives and reasons of worship; and weighing that this _power,
wisdom, goodness, infinitely transcend any corporeal nature, we find
a rule of worship, that it ought to be offered by us in a manner suit-
able to such a nature as is infinitely above any bodily being. His
being a Spirit declares what he is; his other perfections declare what
kind of Spirit he is. All God’s lperfeetions suppose him afS1pirit; all
centre in this; his wisdom dot not suppose him merei ,or his
mercy suppose him omniscient; there may be distinct notions of
those, but all suppose him to be of a spiritual nat1u'e. How cold
and frozen will our devotions _be, if we consider not his omniscience,
whereby he discerns our hearts! How carnal will our services be,
if we consider him not as a p1u'e Spirit l° In our offers to, and
tmmactions with men, we deal not with them as mere animals, but
u rational creatures; and we debase their natures if we treat them
otherwise; and if we havzhnot raised agprehensions of G-od’s spiritual
nature in our treating wi him, but ow him gpg such frames as
ve think fit enough or men, we debase his spiri `ty to the little-
les of our own being. We must, therefore, possess om* souls with
|Am;n|¢]_Dig|ert.6,di|p.i.u.1l. °Amynut,deRe1ig.

