208 cHAnNocx ON 'mn yrrnrsurrs.
this; we shall else render him no better than a fleshl service. We
do not much concern ourselves in those things oiy which we are
either utterly ignorant, or have but slight apprehensions oi That
is the ‘first proposition ;-The right exercise of worship is grounded
upon the spuituality of God. ,
Prop. II. This spiritual worshi of God is manifest by the light of
nature, to be due to him. In refiirence to~ this, consider,
1. The outward means or matter of that worship which would be
acceptable to God, was not known by the li ht of nature. The law
for a worship, and for a spiritual worship iy the faculties of our
souls was natural, and art of the law of creation; though the deter-
mination of the particuliir acts, whereby God would have this homage
testified, was of positive institution, and depended not upon the law
of creation. Though Adam in innocence knew God was to be wor-
shipped, yet by nature he did not know by what outward acts he
was to pay this respect, or at what time he was more solemnly to be
exercised in it than at another: this depended u n the directions God,
as the sovereign Governor and Lawgiver, sliiiiild rescribe. You
therefore find the positive institutions of the “tree oigthe knowledge
of good and evil, and the determination of the time of worship
(Gen.   3, 17). Had there been any such notion in Adam natu-
rally, as strong as that other, that a worship was due to God, there
would have been found some relics of these modes universally con-
sented to by mankind, as well as of the other. But though all
nations have by an universal consent concurred in the acknowledg-
ment of the being of God, and his iight to adoration, and the obliga-
tion of the creature to it; and that there ought to be some public
rule and plolity in matters of religion (for no nation hath been in the
world wit out a worship, and without external acts and certain cere-
monies to signify that worship); yet their modes and rites have been
as various as their climates, imless in that common notion of sacri-
Hces, not descending to them by nature, but tradition from Adam;
and the various ways of worshi have been more provoking than
pleasing. Every nation suited the kind of worship to their particular
ends and “politics they designed to rule by. How God was to be
worshipp is more iiicult to be discerned by nature with its e es
out than with its eyes clear.d The pillars upon which the worship
of God stands cannot be discerned without revelation, no more than
blind Samson could tell where the pillars of the Philistines’ theatre
stood, without one to conduct him. What Adam could not see with
his sound eyes, we cannot with our dim eyes; he must be told from
heaven what worship was 'fit for the God of heaven. It is not by
nature that we can have such a full pros ect of God as may content
and quiet us; this is the noble effect of Eivine revelation; He only
knows himself, and can only make himself known to us. It could
not be supposed that an infinite God should have no perfections but
what were visible in the works of his hands; and that these perfec-
tions should not be infinitely greater, than as they were sensible in
their present effects: this had been to aplprehend God a limited Being,
meaner than he is. N ow it is impossi e to honor God as we ought,
4 King, on Jonah, p. 68.

