ON srrnrrmr. wonsmr. 209
nnlem we know him as he is; and we could not know him as he is,
without divine revelation from himself; for none but God can
acquaint us with his own nature: and therefore the nations void of
this conduct, heaped up modes of worship from their own imagina-
tions, unworthy of the majesty of God, an below the nature of man.
A rational man would scarce have owned such for signs of honor, as
the Scripture mentions in the services of Baal and Dagon; much
less an infinitely wise and glorious God. And when God had signi-
fied his mind to his own people, how unwilling were they to rest
satisfied with God’s determ1nation,but would be warping to their
own inventions, and make gods, and ways of worship to themselvesl'
as in the matter of the golden calf, as was lately spoken of
2. Though the outward manner of worship acceptable to God could
not be known without revelation, and those revelations might be
various; yet the inward manner of worship with our spirits was
manifest by nature: and not only manifest by nature to Adam in
innocence, but after his fall, and the scales he had brought upon his
understanding by that fail. When God gave him his ositive in-
stitutions before the fall, or whatsoever additions God should have
made, had he persisted -in that state; or, when he appointed him,
atler his fall, to testify his acknowledgment of him b sacr`ces, there
needed no command to him to make those acknowledgments by those
outward ways prescribed to him, with the intention and prime aifec-
tion of his spirit: this nature would instruct him in without revela-
tion; for he could not ssibly have any. semblance of reason to
think that the oiiering otp(-beasts, or the presenting the Hrst fruits of
the increase of the ound, as an acknowledgment of God’s sove-
reignty over him angrhis bounty to him, was sufiicient, without de-
voting to him that part wherein the image of his Creator did consist:
he could not but discern, by a reflection upon his own being, that he
was made for God as well as by God: for it is a natural principle of
which the apostle speaks (Rom. xi. 36), “For of him, and through
him, and to im are all thin ,” &c.: that the whole whereof he did
consist was due to God; an? that his body, the dre gy and dusty
part of his nature, was not ‘dt to be brought alone beére God, with-
out that nobler principle, which he had, y creation, linked with it.
Nothing in the whole law of nature, as it is informed of religion, was
clearer, next to the being of a God, than this manner of worship ing
God with the mind and spirit. And as the Gentiles never sunk so
low into the mud of idolatry, as to think the images they worshipped
were really their gods, but the repremntations, or habitations of t eir
ggi; so they never deserted this principle in the notion of it, that
was tc be honored with the best they were, and the best they
had: as they never denied the being°of a God in the notion, thoug
they did in the practice, so they, never rejected this principle in
notion, though' they did, and now most men do, in the inward ob-
Btrvation of rt: it was a maxim among them that God was mens aml
"Wa, mind and spirit, and therefore was to be honored with the mind
and spirit: that religion did not consist in the ceremonies of the
b0dy, ut the work of the soul; whence the speech of one of them:
° Amos v. 26.
vor.. 1.-14

