210 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
“Sacrifice to the gods, not so much clothed\with purple garments as
a pure heart :”f and of another: “God regards not t e multitude of
the sacrifices, but the disposition of the sacrificer.”s It is not fit we
should den God the cream and the flower, and give him the flotten
part and the stalks. And with what reverence and intention of
mind they thought their worship was to be performed, is evident by
the priests crying out often, Hoc age, Mind this, let your spirits be
intent upon it. This could not but result,
(1.) From the knowledge of ourselves.. It is a natural principle,
“God hath made us, and not we ourselves” (Psalm c. 1, 2). an
knows himself to be a rational creature; as a creature he was to
serve his Creator, and as a rational creature with the best part of that
rational nature he derived from him. By the same act of reason
that he knows himself to be a crea.t1u°e, he knows himself to have a
Creator; that this Creator is more excellent than himself, and that
an honor is due from him to the Creator for framing of him ; and,
therefore, this honor was to be offered to him by the most excellent
part which was framed by him. Man cannot consider himself as a
thinking, understanding, being, but he must know that he must 've
God the honor of his thoughts, and worship ~him with those faculties
whereby he thinks, wills, and acts.” He must know his faculties
were given him to act, and to act for the glory of that God who gave
him his soul, and the faculties of it; and he could not in reason think
they must be only active in his own service, and the service of the
creature, and idle and unprofitable in the service of his Creator. VVith
the same powers of our soul, whereby we contemplate God, we must
also wors ip God ; we cannot think of him but with our minds, nor
love him but with our will; and we cannot worship him without
the acts of thinking and loving, and therefore cannot worship him
without the exercise of our inward faculties: how is it possible then
for any man that knows his own nature, to think that extended
hands, bended knees, and lifted up eyes, were sufficient acts of wor-
shi , without a qgckened and active spirit?
  From the nowledge of God. As there was a knowled e of
God y nature, so the same nature did dictate to man, that God was
to be glorified as God ; the apostle implies the inference in the charge
he brings against them for neglecting it.i “We should speak of
God as he is,” said one;" and the same reason would inform them
that they were tc act towards God as he is. The excellency of the
object required a worship according to the dignity of his nature,
which could not be answered but by the most serious inward affec-
tion, as well as outward decency; and a want of this cannot but be
judged to be unbecoming the majesty of the Creator of the world,
and the excellency of religion. ‘ No nation, no person, did ever assert,
that the vilest part of man was enough for the most excellent Being,
as God is; that a bodil service could be a sufficient acknowledg-
ment for the greatness of? God, or a suiiicient return for the bounty
of God. Man could not but know that he was to act in religion con-
fnrmably to the object of religion, and to the excellency of his own
f Meuauder. Grot. de Veritat Relig. lib. iv. § 12. I' lamblio.
5 Amyraut. Mor. Tom. I pp. 309, 810. ‘ Rom. i. 21. ' Bias.
0

