ON srmirnan wonsmr. 211
soul :\ the notion of a God was sufficient to fill the mind of man with
admiration and reverence, and the first conclusion from it would be
to honor God, and that he have all the affection placed on him that
so infinite and spiritual a Being did deserve: the progress then
would be, that this excellent Being was to be honored with the
motions of the understanding and will, with the purest and most
spiritual wers in the nature of man, because he was a s iritual
being, angohad nothing of matter mingled with him. Such a lirutish
imagination, to suppose that blood and fumes, beasts and incen
 lam a Deity, without a ipiritual frame, cannot be supposigl
to any but those that had ost their reason in the rubbish of
same. Mere rational nature could never conclude that so excellent
a   would be put oil' with a mere animal service; an attendance
of matter and bod without spirit, when they themselves, of an in-
ferior nature, would be loth to sit down contented with an outside
service from those that belong to them; so that this instruction of
our Saviour, that God is to be worshipped in spirit and truth, is con-
formable to the sentiments of nature, and drawn from the most un-
deniable principles of it. The excellency of God’s nature, and the
excellent constitution of human faculties, concur naturally to support
this persuasion; this was as natural to be known by men, as the
necesity of justice and temperance for the support of human socie-
ties and bodies. It is to be feared, that if there be not among us
such brutish apprehensions, there are such brutish dealings with God,
in our services, against the light of nature _; when we p acc all our
worship of God in outward attendances and drooping countenances,
with uznbelieving frames and formal devotions ; when prayer is mut-
wred over in private, slightly, as a parrot learns lemons by rote, not
understanding what it speaks, or to what end it sfpeaks it; not glori-
fying God in thought and s irit, with understan ing and will.
Prqa. HI.   worslliip therefore was alwa§; required by
God, and always offered to him by one or other. an had a per-
mal obligation upon him to suc a worship from the nature of
; and what is founded upon the-nature of God is invariable.
This and that particular mode of worship may wax old as a garment,
and as a. vesture may be folded up and changed, as the expression
isof the heavens ;‘“ but God endxues forever; his spiritua it fails
not, therefore a worship of him in spirit must run through allyways
and rites of worship. God must cease to be Spirit, before any ser-
vice but that which is iritual can be accepted by him. The light
of nature is the light o?God; the light of nature being unchange-
able, what was dictated by that, was alway, and will alwzf be, re-
quired by God. The worship) of God being perpetually ue from
the creature, the worshipping im as God is as perpetual y his right.
Though the outward expressions of his honor were diiferent, one
way in Paradise (for a worship was then due, since a solemn time
br that worshi was appointed), another under the law, another
under the gospel); the angels also worship God in heaven, and fall
dum befm-e his throne; yet, though they differ in rites, they agree
iggbjg nweggijy ingredient, all rites, though of a different shape,
| mms; fb. - me i. 11,11

