212 cnnnnocz ON THE ATTRIBU'IfES.
must be ofered to him, not as carcasses, but animated with the aifeo-
tions\of the soul. Abel’s sacriiice had not been so excellent in God’s
esteem, without those gracious habits and aH`ections working in his
soul." Faith works by love; his heart was on fire as well as his
sacrifice. Cain rested upon his present; perhaps thought he had
obliged God; he depended upon the outward ceremony, but sou ht
not for the inward purity : it was an offering brought to the Lord ;°
he had the right object, but not the right manner (Gen. iv. 7); “ If
thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted ?” And in the command
afterwards to Abraham, “ Walk before mc, and be thou perfect,"
was the direction in all our religious acts and walkings with God.
A sincere act of the mind and will, looking above and beyond all
symbols, extending the soul to a pitch far above the body, and seein
t e day of Christ through the veil of the ceremonies, was required
by God: and though Moses, by God’s order, had instituted a multi-
tude of carnal ordinances, sacrifices, washings, oblations of sensible
things, and recommended to the peo le the diligent observation of
those statutes, by the allurements 0? promises and denouncing of
threateningsf as if there were nothing else to be regarded, and the
true workings of grace were to be buried under a heap of ceremonies;
yet sometimes he doth point them to the inward worship, and, by
the command of God, requires of them the “circumcision of the
heart” (Dent. x. 16), the turning to God with “all their heart and all
their soul” (Dent. xxx. 10): whereby they might recollect, that it
was the engagement of the heart and the worship of the Spirit that
was most agreeable to God; and that he took not any peasure in
their observance of ceremonies, without true piety within, and the
true purity of their thoughts.
Prop. IV. It is, therefore, as much every man’s dutylto worship
God in spirit, as it is their duty to worship him. Wors i is so due
to him as God, as that he that denies it disowns his deity; and
spliritual worshi is so due, that he that waives it denies his spiritu-
a `ty. It is a debt of justice we owe to God, to worship him; and it
is as much a debt of justice to worship him according to his nature.
Worshi is nothin else but a rendering to God the honor that is
due to dim; and, tflierefore, the right posture of our spirits in it is as
much, or more, due, than the material worship in the modes of his
own prescribing: that is, grounded both upon his nature and u n
his command; this only upon his command, that is perpetually dill; °
whereas, the channel wherein outward worship runs may be dried
up, and the river diverted another way; such a worship w erein the
mind thinks of God, feels a sense of (rod, has a spirit consecrated to
God, the heart glowing with affections to God; it is else a mocking
God with a feather. A rational nature must worship God with that
wherein the glory of God doth most sparkle in him. God is most
visible in the frame of the soul, it is there his image glitters; he hath
given us a jewel as well as a case, and the jewel as well as the case
we must return to him; the spirit is God’s   and must “ return to
him ;”P it must return to him in every service morally, as well as it
must return to him at last physically. It is not fit we should serve
°Heb.xi.4. °Gen.iv.i. |Eec1e|.xii'l.

