ON srmrrUAL wonsmr. , 218
our Maker only with that which is the brute in us, and withhold Hom
him that which doth constitute us reasonable creatures; we must give
him our bodies, but a. “living sa.critice.”'i If the s irit be absent from
God when the body is before him, we present a   sacrifice; it is
morally dead in the duty, though it be natlually alive in the posture
and action It is not an indiiferent thing whether we shall worship
God or no; nor is it an indifferent thing whether we shall worship
him with our spirits or no; as the excellenc of man’s knowledge
consists in knowing things as they are in truth, so the excellency of
the will in willing things as they are in goodness. As it is the ex-
cellency of man, to know God as God; so it is no less his excellency,
as well as his dug] to honor God as God. As the obli ation we have
to the power of od for our being, binds us to a worsliip of him; so
the ob `gation we have to his bounty for fashioning us according to
hisown image, binds us to an exercise of that part wherein his image
doth consist. God hath “made all things for himself ” (Prov. xvi. 4),
thatis, for the evidence of his own goodness and wisdom; we are
therefore to render him a glory according to the excellency of his
nature, discovered in the frame of our own. It is as much our sin
not to glorify God as God, as not to attempt the glorifying of him at
all; it is our sin not to worship God as God, as well as to omit the
  any respect at all to him. As the Divine nature is the
object o worship, so the Divine perfections are to be honored in
worship; we do not honor God if we honor him not as he is; we
honor im not as a. Spirit, if we think him not worthy of the ardors
and ravishing admirations of our spirits. If we think the devotions
of the body are sufiicient for him, we contract him into the condition
of our own being; and not only den him to_be a s iritual natlue,
but dash out all those perfections which he could not be possessed of
were he not a Spirit.
Prop. V. The ceremonial law was abolished to promote the spiritu-
ality of divine worship. That service was gross, carnal, calculated
for an infant and sensitive church. It consisted in rudiments, the
circumcision of the flesh, the blood and smoke of sacrifices, the
steams of incense, observation of days, distinction of meats, corporal
purifications; every leaf ofthe law is clogged with some rite to be
particularly observed by them. The spirituality of worship lay veiled
under a thick cloud, that the peo le could not behold t e glory of
the gospel, which lay covered undler those shadows (2 Cor. iii. 13):
f"l‘hey could not steadfastly look to the end of that which is abol-
Bhedz" They understood not the glory and spiritual intent of the
law, and therefore came short of that s iritua.l frame in the worship
Of God, which was their duty. And therefore in opposition to this
administration, the worship of God under the gospel is called by our
Saviour in the text, a worship in spirit; more spiritual for the mat-
ter, more spiritual for the motives, and more spiritual for the manner
Ind frames of worship.
1. This leial service is called flesh in Scripture, in opposition to
the ospel, w ich is called spirit. The ordinances of the aw, though
of divine institution, are dignified by the apostle with no better a
‘I Rom. xii. 1.

