214 . GHARNOCK ON THE arrnmurms.
title than carnal ordinances; and a carnal command :° but the gospel
is called the ministration of the Spirit, as being -attended with a
special and s iritual eflicacy on the minds of men! And when the
degenerate (lhlatians, after having tasted of the pure streams of the
gospel, turned about to drink of the thicker streams of the law, the
apostle tells them, that they begun in the spirit and would now be
made perfect in the ilesh;“ they would leave the righteousnes of
faith for a justification by works. The moral law, which is in its_own
nature spiritualf in refrard of the _abuse of it, in expectation of Justi-
fication y the outiward works of xt, ishcalled flesh: muchdnéore may
the ceremonial a ministration, whic was never inten e to run
parallel with the moral, nor had any foundation in nature as the
other had. That whole economfy consisted in sensible and material
thing, which only touched the esh: it is called the letter and the
oldness of the letter;Y as letters, which are but empty sounds of
themselves, but ' put together and formed into words, signify some-
thing to the mind of the hearer or reader: an old letter, a t ing of
no eflicacy upon the spirit, but as a law written upon paper. The
gospel hath an efficacious spirit attending it, strong y working upon
the mind and Will, and moulding the soul into a spiritual frame for
God, %§cor;lling_to the dopltrine o illiledgpppel xhs oneihis pld apsdalge
cays eo erisnewan increase ay. n as eawi _is
called flesh, so the observers of it and testers in it are called Israel
after the ilesh ,I and the evangelical worshippir is called a Jew after
the spirit (Rom. ii. 29). They weressrael aG rdthe iléeshhas born of
Jaco not Israel after the s irit as orn of o ' an t erefore the
apostle calls them Israel and) not Israel ;“ Israel after a carnal birth,
ppt Iprlael after a spiréitual ;f%rae1l izprt the circumcision of the flesh, not
rae y a regenera ion o ie e .
2. The legal ceremonies were not a. tit means to bring the heart
into a spiritual frame. They had adspiritupil intent; Ellie rock and
manna prefiffured the salvation an spirit nouris ment by the
Redeemer.” oThe sacrifices were to point them to the justice of
God in the punishment of sin, and the mercyof God in substi-
tuting) them in tléeir rsiteads, as types of thi Rgdeimer and the ran-
som y his bloo _ he circumcision of t e es was to instruct
them in the circumcision of the heart: they were flesh in regard of
their matter, weakness and cloudiness, spiritual in regard of their
intent and signification ; they did instruct, but not eflieaciously
Work strong spiritual affections in the soul of the worshi ier.
They were weak and beggarly elements;° had neither wealih to
enrich nor strength to nourish the soul: they could not perfect the
corners to them, or put them into a frame agreeable to the nature of
Go<l,4 nor purge the conscience from those dead and dull dis si-
tions which were by nature in them :° being carnal they coulffiiot
have an eiiicacy to purify the conscience 0 the oiferer and work
s iritual effects: had they continued without the exhibition of
(lhrist, they could never ave Wrought any change in us or pu:-
' Heb. ix. 10. ° Heb. vii. 16. * 2 Cor. iii 8. ' Gal. iii. 8.
' Rom. vii. 14. I Rom. vii. 6. ' l Cor. x. 18. ' Rom. ix. 6
* l Cor x. 3, 4. ° Gal. iv. 9. 4 Heb. x. L ix. 9. ° Heb.v. 14.

