ON SPIRITUAL wonsmr. 215
chased any favor for us.f At the best they were but shadows, and
came inex ressibly short of the etlicacy of that person and state
whose shadows they were. The shadow of a man is too weak to
perform what the man himself can do, because it wants the life,
spirit, and activity of the substance: the whole pomp and scene
was suited more to the sensitive than the intellectual nature; and,
like pictures, leased the fancy of children rather than improved
their reason. The Jewish state was a state of childhood,s and that
administration a da;gogy.h The law was a schoolmaster fitted
for their weak an§ech` dish capacity, and could no more spiritual-
ize the heart, than the teachings in a primer-school can enable the
mind, and make it fit for affairs of state; and because they could
not better the spirit, they were instituted only for a time, as ele-
ments delivered to an infant age, which naturally lives a life of
sense rather than a life of reason. It was also a servile state,
which doth rather debase than elevate the mind; rather carnalize
than spiritualize the heart: besides, it is a sense of mercy that
both melts and elevates the heart into a spiritual frame: “There
is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared ;"i and they
had, in that state, but some limmermgs of mercy in the daily
bloody intirnations of justice. There was no sacrifice for some sins,
but a cutting off without the least hints of pardon; and in the
yearly remembrance of sin there was as much to shiver them with
fear, as to possess them with hopes; and such a state which always
held them under the conscience of sin, could not produce a free
spirit, which was necessary for a worship of God according to his
nature.
3. In their use they rather hindered than furthered a spiritual
worship. In their own nature they did not tend to the obstructing
afpiritual worshi , for then they ad been contrary to the nature
0 religion, and the end of God who appointed them; nor did God
cover the evangelical doctrine under the clouds of the legal admin-
istration, to hinder the people off Israel from perceiving it, but
because they were not yet capable to bear the splendor of it, had
it been clearly set before them. The shining of the face of Moses
Was too dazzling for their weak eyes, and therefore there was a
necessity of a veil, not for the things themselves, but the “weak-
ness of their eyes.”k The carnal affections of that people sunk
down into the thin themselves; stuck in the outward plomp, and
pierced not throng? the veil to the spiritual intent of t em; and
ythe use of them without rational conceptions, they besotted their,
minds and became senseless of those spiritual motions required of
them. Hence came all their expectations of a carnal Messiah; the
veil of ceremonies was so thick, and the film upon their eyes so
Oondensed., that they could not look through the veil to the Spirit
of Christ; they beheld not the heavenly Canaan for the beauty of
the earthly; nor minded the regeneration of the spirit, while they
rested upon the urlcations of the flesh; the fporevalency of sense
Rnd sensitive afllictions diverted their minds m inquiring into
‘ Barge’ Vind. p. 266. I Gal. v. 2. * Gal. iv. 24.
‘P|slmcxxx.4. *2Cor.iii.18,l4.

