216 cmuurocx on THE a'1'1‘a1BU'rss.
the intent of them. Sense and matter are often clo to the
mind, and sensible objects are the same oiten to spirituals motions.
Our souls are never more raised than when they are abstracted
from the entan lements of them. A ompous worship, made up
of many sensible objects, weakens the spirituality of religion.
Those that are most zealous for outward, are usually most cold and
indifferent in inward observances; and those that overdo in carnal
modes, usuall underdo in spiritual affections. This was the J ew-
ish state.l Tile nature of the ceremonies being ompous and earth-
l b their show and beauty, meeting with 3]€lI' weakness and
childish affections, iilled their eyes with an outward lustre, allured
their minds, and detained them from seeking thin higher and
more spiritual; the kernel of those rights lay concealdd in a thick
shell; the spiritual glory was little seen, and the spiritual sweetness
little tasted. Unless the Scripture be diligently searched, it seems
to transfer the worship of God from the true faith and the spiritual
motions of the heart, and stake it down to outward observances, and
the opus operatum. Besides, the voice of the law did only declare
saeiiiices, and invited the worshippers to them with a promise of
the atonement of sin, turning away the wrath of God. It never
plainly acquainted them that those things were ty(pcs and shadows
of something future; that they were only outwar purifications of
the flesh; it never plainly told them, at the time of appointing
them, that those sacrifices could not abolish sin, and reconcile them
to God. Indeed, we see more of them since their death and dis-
section, in that one E istle to the Hebrews, than can be discerned
in the five books of Mioses. Besides, man naturally aifefts a carnal
life, and therefore affects a carnal worship; he designs the gratify-
ing his sense, and would have a religion of the same nature.
Most men have no mind to busy their reasons about the thin of
sense, and are naturally unwilling to raise them up to those th!in§
which are allied to the spiritual nature of God; and therefore the
more spiritual any ordinance is, the more averse is the heart of
man to it. There is asimplicityl of the gos el from which our
minds are easily corrupted by t ings that pleasure the sense, as
Eve was by the curiosity of her eyes, and the li uorishness of her
palate.°‘ From this principle hath s rung all ilae idolatry in the
world. The Jews knew they had a god who had delivered them,
but they would have a sensible God to go before them ;“ and the
papacy at this day is a witness of the truth of this natural corrup-
tion. »
4. Upon these accounts, therefore, God never testified himself well
pleased with that kind of worship. He was not diipleased with
them, as they were his own institution, and ordained or the repre-
senting (though in an obscure manner) the glorious things of the
ospel; nor was he offended with those people’s observance of
tghem; for, since he had commanded them, it was their duty to
perform them, and their sin to neglect them; but he was displeased
with them as they were practised by them, with souls as morally
carnal in the practices, as the ceremonies were materially carnal
| lllyric de Velmn. Mosis, p. 221 &.c. l 2 Cor. xi. 8. ' Exod. xxxii. 1.

