oN srrarrusr. wonsmr. ` 217
f
in their substance. It was not tneir disobedience to observe them;
but it was a disobedience, and a contempt of the end of the insti-
tution to rest u n them; to be warm in them, and cold in morals;
they fed upon gli; bone and n lected the marrow; pleased them-
selves with the shell, and sou;i|t not for the kernel; they joined
not with them the internal worship of God; fear of him, with faith
in the promised Seed, which lay veiled under those coverings (Hos.
vi. 6); “I desired merc , and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of
God more than burnt-otihrings ;” and therefore he seems sometimes
wearrg of his own institutions, and calls them not his own, but their
sac ` ces, their feasts (Isa. i. 11, 14): they were his by appointment,
theirs by abuse; the institution was from his goodness and conde-
scension, therefore his; the corruption of them was from the vice
of their nature, therefore theirs. He often blamed them for their
carnality in .them; showed his dislike of placing all their re-
ligion in them; gives the sacrificers, on that account, no better a
title than that of the princes of Sodom and Gomorrah ;° and com-
pares the sacrifices themselves to the “cutting off a do(g’s neck,”
“swine’s blood," and “ the murder of a man.”P And in eed God
never valued them, or expressed any delight in them; he despised
the feasts of the wicked (Amos v. 21); and had no esteem for the
material offerings of the godly (Psalm l. 13): “Will I eat the flesh
of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?" which he speaks to his
saints and people, before he comes to reprove the wicked; which
he begins (ver. 16), “But to the wicked, God said,” &c. So slightly
he esteems them, that he seems to disown them to be any part of
his command, when he brought his people out of the land of
Egypt (Jer. vii. 21): “ I s ake not to your fathers, nor commanded
them concerning burnt-oiigrings and sacrifices.” He did not value
and regard them, in comparison with that inward frame which he
haid required by the moral law; that being given before the law of
ceremonies, obliged them, in the first place, to an observance of
those precepts. They seemed to be be ow the nature of God, and
could not of themse ves please him. None could in reason per-
suade themselves that the death of a beast was a roportionable
offering for the sin of a man, or ever was intendedp for the expi-
ation of transgression. In the same rank are all our bodil ser-
vices under the gospel; a loud voice without spirit, bended bulrush-
es without inward affections, are no more delightful to God, than
the sacrinces of animals; it is but a change of one brute for
another of a higher species; a mere brute or that part of man
which hath an agreement with brutes; such a service is a mere
animal service, an not spiritual.
5. And therefore God never intended that sort of worship to be
durable, and had often mentioned the change of it for one more
Spiritual. It was not ood or evil in itself; whatsoever goodness it
had was solel deliver? to it by institution, and therefore it was mu-
table. It had no conformity with the spiritual nature of God who
Was to be worship d, nor with the rational nature of man who was
to worship; and dlieerefore he often speaks of taking away the new
' Isa.i.i. 10. I Isai. lxvi. 8.

