218 ' crmmvocx ON rin: Arrnmvras.
moons, and feasts, and sacrifices, and all the ceremonial worslzfp, as
things he took no pleasure in, to have a worship more suited to his
excellent nature; but he never speaks of removing the gospel
administration, and the worshi prescribed there, as being more
agreeable to the nature and perfgctions of God, and displaying them
more illustriously to the world. The apostle tells us, it was to be
“disannulled because of its wea.kness;”°1 a determinate time was
Hxed for its duration, till the accomplishment of the truth ‘dgured
under that pedagogyi Some of the modes of that worship eing
only typical, must naturally expire and be insignificant in their
use, upon the finishing of that by the Redeemer, which they
did pretigure: and other parts of it, though God suffered them
so long, because of the weakness of the worshipper, yet because it
became not God to be always worshipped in that manner, he would
reject them, and introduce another more gpiritual and elevated.
“Incense and a pure offering” should be 0 ered everywhere unto
his names He often told them he would make a “new covenant
by the Mewiah,” and the old should be rejectedql that the “former
things should not be remembered, and the thingie of old no more
considered,” when he should do “ a new thing in t e earth.”“ Even
the ark of the covenant, the symbol of his presence, and the lory
of the Lord in that nation, should not any more be remembered and
visited# that the temple and sacrifices should be rejected, and
others established; that the order of the Aaronical priesthood should
be abolished, and that of Melchizedek set up in the stead of it, in
the rson of the Messiah, to endure forever;Y that Jerusalem
shoulldi be changed; a new heaven and earth created; a worshi
more conformable to heaven, more advantageous to earth. God has
proceeded in the removal of some parts of it, before the time of tak-
ing down the whole furniture of t is house; the ot of manna was
lost; Urirn and Thummim ceased; the glory of? the tem le was
diminished; and the ignorant peo le wept at the sivht of the one,
without raising their faith and ho in the consideration of the
other, which was promised°to be filled” with a spiritual glory. And as
soon as ever the gospel was spread in the world, God thundered out
his judgments upon that lace in which lie had fixed all those legal
observances; so that the .l)ews, in the letter and flesh, could never
practise the main part of their worship, since they were expelled
om that place where it was only to be celebrated. It is one thou-
sand six hundred years since the have been deprived of their altar,
which was the foundation of all, the Levitical worship, and have
wandered in the world without a sacrifice, a prince, or priest, an
ephod or teraphim! And God fully pxut an end to it in the com-
mand he gave to the apostles, and in t em to us, in the presence of
Moses and Elias, to hear his Son only (Matt. xvii. 5); “Behold a
voice out of the cloud, which said, This is m beloved Son, in whom
I am well pleased; hear ye him.” And at tlie death of our Saviour,
testied it to that whole nation and the world, by the rending in
twain the veil of the temple. The whole frame of that service,
ll Heb. vii. 18. ' Gal. iv. 2. ' Mal. i. 11. ‘ Pascal Pen. 142.
' lui.   18, 19. 1 Jer.   16. I Psalm cx. ' Hos. iiirl

