on sriarruiu. woasmr. 219
which was carnal, and, by reason of the corruption of man, weak-
ened, is nulled; and a spiritual worship is made known to the
world, that we might now serve God iii a more spiritual manner,
and with more spiritual frames. -
Prop. VI. The service and worship the gospel settles is spiritual,
and the performance of it more spiritual. Spirituality is the genius
of the gospel, as carnality was of the law; the gospel is therefore
called spirit; we are abstracted from the em loyments of sense, and
brought nearer to a heavenly state. The gews had angels’ bread
poured upon them; we have angels’ service prescribed to us, the
praises of God, communion with God in spirit, through his Son
esus Christ, and stronger foundations for spuitual affections. It is
called a “reasonable service ;”“ it is suited to a rational nature,
though it finds no friendship from the corruption of reason. It pre-
scribes a service fit for the reasonable faculties of the soul, and
advanceth them while it employs them. The word reasonable may be
translated “ word-service,"" as well as reasonable service; an evan-
gelical service, in opposition to a law service. All evangelical ser-
vice is reasonable, and all truly reasonable service is evangelical.
The matter of the worship is s iritual; it consists in love of God,
iaith in God, recourse to his goomihess, meditation on him, and com-
munion with him. It la s aside the ceremonial, spiritualizeth the
moral. The commands that concerned our duty to God, as well as
those that concerned our duty to our neighbor, were reduced by
Christ to their spiritual intention. The motives are spiritual; it is a
state of more grace, as well as of more truth,” sulpported by spiritual
promises, beaming out in spiritual privileges; eaven comes down
m it to earth, to spiritualize earth for heaven. The manner of worship
is more spiritual; higher flights of the soul, stronger ardors of affec-
tion, sincerer aims at his glor ; mists are removed from our minds,
clogs from the soul, more of lbve than fear; faith in Christ kindles
the affections, and works by them. The assistances to spiritual
worship are greater. The S irit doth not drop, but is plentifully
ured out. It doth not liglit sometimes u n, but dwells in the.
hoeartt Christ suited the gospel to a spiritualplieart, and the Spirit
changeth the carnal heart to make it fit for a spiritual gospel. He
blows upon the garden, and causes the spices to flow forth; and
otien makes the soul in worship like the chariots of Aminadab, in a
3¢uick and nimble motion. Our blessed Lord and Saviour, by his
eath, discovered to us the nature of God; and after his ascension
sent his Spirit to 'dt us for the worship of God, and converse with
him. One spiritual evangelical believing breath is more delightful
to God than millions of altars made up of the richest pearls, and
smoking with the costliest oblations, because it is spiritual; and a
mite of ‘spirit is of more worth than the greatest weight of flesh:
psf; holy angel is more excellent than a whole world of mere
ies.
Prop. VII. Yet the worshi of God with our bodies is not to be
rlleiixected upon the account that God requires a spiritual worship.
ough we must perform the weightier duties of the law, yet we are
* Bom. xii. 1. * Vide Hammond, in loc. ° John i. 17.

