220 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES. i
not to omit and leave undone the lighter prece ts, since both the
magnalzh, and minutula Zegala, the eater and the iesser duties of the
law,,have the stamp of divine auirority upon them. As God under
the ceremonial law did not command the worship of the body and
the observation of outward rites without the engagement of the
spirit, so neither doth he command that of the spirit without the
peculiar attendance of the body. The Schwelksendians denied
odily worship; and the indecent postures of many in public attend-
ance intimate no great care either of composing their bodies or s ir-
its. A morally discomposed body intimates a tainted heart. Sur
bodies as well as our spirits are to be presented to God.d Our
bodies in lieu of the sacrifices of beasts, as in the Judaical institu-
tions; body for the whole man; a living sacrihce, not to be slain,
as the beasts were, but living a new life, in a holy posture, with cru-
cified affections. This is the inference the apostle makes of the riv-
ile es of justification, adoption, co-heirship ith Christ, whicii he
had before discoursed of; privileges conferredv upon the person, and
not u on a part ofman.
1. ldodily worship is due to God. He hath a right to an adora-
tion by our bodies, as they are his by creation; his right is not
diminished, but increased, by the blessing of redem tion: (1 Cor. vi.
20) “ For you are bought with a price ; thereildre lorify God
in our bodies and your spirits,/which are God’s.” Tie body, as
well as the spirit, is redeemed, since our Saviour suifered crucifixion
in his body, as well as agonies in his soul. Bod is not taken here
for the whole man, as it may be in Rom xii.; but for the material
part of our nature, it being distinguished from the spirit. If we
are to render to God an obe ience with our bodies, We are to render
him such acts of worship with our bodies as they are ca able o£
.As God is the Father of spirits, so he is the God of all flesh); there-
fore the flesh he hath framed of the earth, as well as the noble por-
tion he hath breathed into us, cannot be denied him without a al-
pable injustice. The service of the body we must not deny to Gibd,
unless we will deny him to be the author of it, and the exercise of
his providential care about it. The mercies of God are renewed every
day upon our bodies as well as our souls, and, therefore, they ought
to express a fealty to God for his bounty every day. “Both are
from God; both should be for God. Man consists of body and
soul; the service of man is the service of both. The body is to be
sanctified as well as the soul; and, therefore, to be offered to God
as well as the soul. Both are to be glorified, both are to glorify.
.As our Saviour’s divinity was manifested in his body, so should our
spirituality in ours. To give God the service of the body and not
of the soul, is hypocrisy; to give God the service of the spirit and
not of the body, is saerilege; to give him neither, atheism.”€ If the
only part of man that is visible Were exempted from the service of
God, there could be no visible testimonies of piety given u on any
occasion. Since not a moiety of man, but the whole is Gogh crea-
ture, he ought to ay a homage with the whole, and not only with
3 moiety of himselll
4 Bom. xii. 1. ° Sherman'| Greek in the Temple, rp. 61, 62.

