ON SPIRITUAL wonsmr. 221
2. Worship in societies is due to God, but this cal not be without
some bodily expressions. The law of nature doth asmuch direct men
to combine togetherinpublic societies forthe acknowledgmentof God,
as in civil communities for selflpreservation and order; and a notice
ot a society for religion is more ancient than the mention of civil as-
sociations for politic government (Gen. iv. 262: “Then began men
to call upon the name of the Lord,’? viz., in t e time of Seth. No
question but Adam had worshipped God before, as well as Abel, and
a tixmily religion had been preserved; but, as mankind increased in
distinct families, the knit together in companies to solemnize the
worship of God! Eience, as some think, those that incorporated to~
gether for such ends, were called the “ sons of God ;” sons by pro-
ession, though not sons by adoption; as those of Corinth were
saints by ro ession, though in such a corrupted church the could
not be alflso b regeneration; yet saints, as being of a Christian
society, and calling upon the name of Christ, that is, worshipping
God in Christ, though they might not be all saints in irit and prac-
tice. So Cain and Abel met together to worship (gen. iv. 3) “ at
the end of the days,” at a set time. God settled a public worship
among the Jews, instituted synago es for their convening together,
whence called the “ s nagogues of gbdfs The Sabbath was institut-
ed to acknowledge Glbd a common benefactor. Public worship keeps
up the memorials of God in a world prone to atheism, and a sense
o God in a heart prone to.forgetfulness. The angels sung in com-
pany, not singly, at the birth of Christ,h and praised God not only
with a simple elevation of their spiritual nature, but audibly, by
forming a voice in the air. Aifections are more lively, spirits more
raised* in public than private; God will credit his own ordinance.
Fire increaseth b laying together many coals on one place; so is
devotion inflamedy by the imion of many hearts, and by a joint pres-
ence; nor can the approach of the last day of judgment, or particu-
lar judgments upon a nation, give awrit of ease from such assem-
blies (Heb. x. 25): “ Not forsaking the assembling ourselves to-
zether; but so much the more as you see the day approachin .”
Whether it be understood of the day of judgment, or the day of Sze
Jewish destruction and the Christian persecution, the apostle uses
it as an argument to quicken them to the observance, not to encour-
age them to a neglect. Since, therefore, natural light informs us,
and divine institution commands us, publicly to ac nowledge our-
selves the servants of God, it implies the service of the body. Such
acknowledgments cannot be without visible testimonies, and out-
ward exercises of devotion, as well as inward affections. This pro-
motes God’s honor, checks others’ profaneness, allures men to the
same expressions of duty; and though there may be hypocrisy and
an outward garb without an inward frame, dyet etter a moiety of
worship than none at all; better acknowle ge God’s right in one
than disown it in both.
3. Jesus Christ, the most spiritual worshipper, worshipped God
With his body. He prayed orally, and knee ed, “ Father, if it be
' Stillingtleeti lrenicum, c. 1. §I. p. 28. I Psalm Ixxiv. 8.
\ Luke ii. 18.

