222 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
thy wi1l,”i &c. He blessed with his mouth, “ Father, I thank thee.”\
He lifted up his eyes as well as elevated his spirit, when he ]p-‘raised
his Father for mercy received, or begged for the blessings 's dis-
ciples wanted.l The strength of the s irit must have vent at the
outward members. The holy men of (lied have employed the body
in significant expressions o worship; Abraham in falling on his
face, Paul in kneeling, em lo in their tongues, lifting up their
hands. Thou h Jacob was hedirii yet he would not worship God
without some clevout expression of reverence ; it is in one place “ lean-
ing upon his staff ;"m` in another, “bowing himself upon his bed’s
head. ’" 'l‘he reason of the diversity is in the Hebrew word, which,
without vowels, may be read mittah, a bed, or matteh, a staff ; how~
ever, both signify a testimony of adoration by a reverent gesture of
the body. Indeed, in angels and separated souls, a worship is per-
formed urely by the spirit; but while the soul is in conjunction
with the Emdy, it can hardly perform a serious act of worship with-
out some tincture u on the outward man and reverential compo-
sure of the body. lilire cannot be in the clothes but it will be felt
by the members, nor flames be _pent up in the soul without bursting
out in the bod _ The heart can no more restrain itself from break-
ing out, than Jbseph could inclose his affections Without expressing
them in tears to his brethren.° *‘ We believe, and therefore speak.”P
To conclude: God hath appointed some parts' of worship which
cannot be performed without the body, as sacraments; we have need
of them because we are not wholly spiritual and incorporeal creaf
tures. The religion which consists in externals only is not tbl
an intellectual nature; a worship purely intellectual is too sublime
for a nature allied to sense, and depending much upon it- The
christian mode of worship is proportioned to both; it makes the
sense to assist the mind, and elevates the spirit above the sense. Bod-
ily worship helps the spiritual: the members of the body reflect
back upon the heart, the voice bars distractions, the tongue sets the
heart on fire in good as well as in evil. It is as much against the
light of nature to serve God without external signilications, as to
serve him only with them without the intention of the mind. As
the invisible God declares himself to men by visible works and
signs, so should we declare our invisible frames by visible ex res-
sions. God hath given us a soul and body in conjunction; and We
are to serve him in the same manner he hath Hamed us.
II. The second thing I am to show is, what spiritual worship is.
In general, the whole spirit isto be employed; t e name of God is
not sanctified but by the engagement of our souls. Worship is an
act of the understanding, applying itself to the knowledge of the
exeellency of God and actua thoughts of his majesty; recognizing
him as the supreme Lord and Governor of the world, which is natu-
ral knowled e; beholding the glory of his attributes in the Re-
deemer, which is evangelical knowledge. This is the sole act of the
s irit of man. The same reason is or all our worship as for our
thanksgiving. This must be done with understanding: (Psalm
* Luke xxii. 41, 42. |' Matt. xi. 26. ' John xi. 41; xii. 1. ' Heb. xi. 2\.
° Gen xlvii. 81. ° Gen. xiv. 1, 2. I 2 Cor. iv. 13

