on srmrrun. wonsnrr. 223
xlvii. 7) “Sing ye praise with understa.nding;” with a knowledge
and sense of his greatness, goodness, and wisdom. It is also an act of
the will, whereby the soul adores and reverences his majesty, is
ravished with his amiableness, embraceth his goodness, enters itself
into an intimate communion with this most lovely object, and pitch-
eth all his affections upm him. We must worship God understand-
ingly; it is not else a reasonable service. The nature of God and
the law of God abhor a blind offering ' *ve must worship him
heartily, else we offer him a dead sacrifice. A reasonable service is
that w erein the mind doth truly act something with God. All
spiritual acts must be acts of reason, otherwise they are not human
acts, because they want that principle which is constitutive of man,
and doth difference him from other creatures. Acts done only by
sense are the acts of a brute; acts done by reason are the acts of a
man. That which is only an act of sense cannot be an act of reli-
gion. The sense, without the conduct of reason, is not the subject
of religious acts; for then beasts were ca able of religion aswell
asmen. There cannot be rjeli 'on where there is not reason; and
there cannot be the exercise og, religion where there is not an exer-
cise of the rational faculties; nothing can be a christian act that is
not a human act. Besides, all worship must be for some end; the
worship of God must be for God. It is by the exercise of our rational
faculties that we only can intend an end. An ignorant and carnal
worship is a brutish worship. Particularly,
1. Spiritual worship is a worship from a s iritual nature. Not
only p ysically spiritual, so our souls are in their frame; but mor-
ally spiritual, ya renewing principle. 'I‘he heart must be first cast
into the mould of the gos el, before it can perform a worship re
quired by the gospel. Adam living in Paradise might perform a
spiritual worship; but Adam fallen hom his rectitude could not:
we, being heirs of his nature, are heirs of his impotence. Restora-
tion to a spiritual life must precede any act of spiritual worship.
Asvno work can be good, so no worship can be spiritual, till we are
created in Christa Christ is our life! As no natural action can be
performed without life in the root or heart, so no spiritual act with-
out Christ in the soul. Our being in Christ is as necessary to every
spiritual act asthe union of our soul with our body is necessary to
natural action. Nothing can exceed the limits of its nature; for
then it should exceed itself in acting, and do that which it hath no
principle to do. A beast cannot act like a man, without artaking
of the nature of a man; nor a man act like an angel, without par-
taking of the angelical nature. How can we perform spiritual acts
without a spiritual principle? Whatsoever worship proceeds from
the corrupted nature, cannot deserve the title of spiritual worship
because it springs not from a spiritual habit. If those that are evil
cannot spea gpod things, those that are carnal cannot offer a spirit-
ual service. oison is the fruit of a viper’s nature (Matt. xii. 34):
“O generation of Vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good
things? for out of the abundance of the heart the'mouth speaks.”
As the root is, so is the knit. If the soul be habitually carnal.,
<1 spa ia. ro. _ f cor   4.

