 _,__ vi
224 cinnsocx ON 'rim .~.rrruBU'rEs.
the worship cannot be actually spiritual. There may be an inten-
tion of spirit, but there is no spiritual principle as a root of that
intention. A heart may be sensibly united with a duty, when it
is not s iritually united with Christ m it. Carnal motives and car-
nal end; may Ex the mind in an act of worship, as the sense of
some pressing afiiiction may enlarge a man’| mind in prayer. What~
soever is agreeable to the nature of God must have a stamp of
Christ upon it; a stamp of his grace in performance, as well as of
his mediation in the acceptance. The apostle lived not, but Christ
lived in him;= the soul worships not, but Christ in .him. Not that
Christ erforms the act of worshi ,but enables us spirituallyto wor-
ship, aiiier he enables us spiritualiy to live. As God counts not any
sou living but in Christ, so he counts not any a spiritual worship-
per but in Christ. The goodness and fatness of the fruit come 'from
the fatness of the olive wherein we are engrafted. We must find
healing in Christ’s wings, before God can Hn spiritualit in our ser-
vices. All worship issuing from adead nature is but adead service.
A living action cannot be performed, without being knit to a living
I‘00t.
2. Spiritual worship is done by the influence and with the assist-
ance o the Spirit of God. A heart may be spiritual, when a par-
ticular act of worshi may not be s iritual. ‘he Spirit may dwell
in the heart, when he may suspendp his influence on the act. Our
worship is then spiritual, when the fire that kindles our affections
comes from heaven, as that 'fire upon the altar wherewith the sacri-
fices were consumed. God tastes a sweetness in no service, but as it
is dressed up by the hand of the Mediator, and hath the air of his
own Spirit in it; they are but natural acts, without a supernatural
assistance; without an actual influence, we cannot act from s iritual
motives, nor for spiritual ends, nor in a spiritual manner. Yge can
not rnortify a lust without the Spirit,* nor quicken a service without
the Spirit. Whatsoever corru tion is killed, is slain by his power;
whatsoever duty is spiritualizes, is refined by his breath. He quick-
ens our dead bodies m our resurrection ;“ he renews our dead souls in
our regeneration; he quickens our carnal services in our adorations;
the choicest acts of worshi are but inhrmities without his auxiliary
help! We are logs, unable to move ourselves, till he raise our fac-
ulties to a pitch agreeable to God; puts his hand to the duty, and
lifts that up and us with it. Never an great act was erformed b
the a ostles to God, or for God; but they are said to be filled with
the Iibly Ghost. Christ could not have been conceived immaculate
as that “holy thing,” without the Spirit’s overshadowing the Virgin;
nor any spiritual act conceived in our heart, without the Spirit’s
moving upon us, to bring forth a living religion from us. The acts
of Worship are said to be in the 'S-tpirit, “supplication in the Spirit ;”!
not only with the strength and ection of our own spirits, but with
the mighty o eration o the Holy Ghost, if Jude may be the inter-
preter ;= t e Ilholy Ghost exciting us, impelling us, and firing our
souls by his divine flame; raising up the affections, and making the
° Gal. ii. 20. * Rom. viii. lil ' Rom. viii. ll.
' Bom. viii. 26. I Eph. vi. 18 ' Judo 20

