on srmrrrm. wossmr. 225
soul cry with a. holy importunity, Abba, Father. To render our
worship iritual, we should, before every engagement in it, implore
the mug presence of the Spirit, without whic we are not ab e to
send forth one spiritual breath or groan; but be wind-bound like a
slgpgwithout a gale, and our worship _be no better than carnal. How
d the spouse sohcxt the Spmt with an “ Awake, O north Wind,
and come, thou south wind,”* &c.
& Spiritual worship is done with sincerity. When the heart
stands right to God., and the soul performs what it pretends to per-
ilrm° when we serveGodwith our spirits, asthe apostle (Rom. i. 9),
“God is m witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of
his Son:" this is not meant ofthe Holy Ghost; for the apostle would
never have called the Spirit of God his own gint; ut with my
spirit, that is, a sincere frame of heart. A carn worship, whether
under the law or gospel, is, when we are busied about external rites,
without an inwa.rd compliance of soul. God demands the heart;
“My son, give me thy heart;”b not give me thy tongue, or thy lips,
or thy hands; these may be given without the heart, but the heart
can never be bestowed without these as its attendants. A heap of ser-
vices can be no more welcome to God, without our spirits, than all
Jacob’s sons could be to Joseph, without the Benjamin he desired to
see. God is not taken with the cabinet, but the jewel; he first re-
spected Abel’s faith and sincerity, and then his sacrifice; he disre-
mted Cain’s infidelity and hypocrisy, and then his offering. For
` cause hei   thfloilenngs céfgiie .;e1v;s,b1£;e prayiprs if the
Phanse] an t e o naniasan p ` auset eir carts
and their duties were at a distance from Oli; another. In all spiritual
sacrihces, our spirits are God’s portion. Under the law, the reins
were to be consumed by the fire on the altar, because the secret in-
tentions ofhthe heart were signified by them (glsalni vii. 9), “ Tlile Iilord
uieththe eartandthe reins.' Itwasan' omen among t e _ear
then, if a victim wanted a heart. The widow’s mites, with her heart
in them, were more esteemed than the richer offerings without it.°
blot the guantity of service, but the will in it, is of account with this
miimte pmt. All that was to be brought for the framing of the
ixhernacle was to be offered “willingly wi the heart."d The more
of will, the more of spirituality and accefptableness to God (Psalm
ix. 10812, “ Accept the free-wil ofrgiinglo my lips.”hEincetTy_i; the
whic seasonsever sacrifice. e eartlsmost ` sto eo ject
of worship; the heart iii the body is the spring of all vital actions;
and a spiritual soul is the spring of all spiritual actions. How can we
imagine God can delight in the mere service of the body, any more
thu we can delight in converse with a carcass? Without the heart
ith: no worship; it i}siahstage`$y  an actiiilg a part withaut being
person reall w c is ac us: a r1te,1n t enotion
ofthe word, is aystage-player. Weymlay as_w}el)iTcsay a. man may _be~
live with his body, as worship God_o y with his body. Faith 18 a
glut ingredient in worsh$; and it is “ with the heart man believ 
|310 1-igh¢eousness.”° e may be truly said to worship God,
.gm it 15. _ ~\ Prov.xxiii. 26.
¢|,||1in_S¢rnm0S,Deead.4.SermonIV.p.80. |Exod,xxv.’1. °Rom.x.l\L
may--15

