226 crmzsocx ON ms .L'l‘l‘RIBU’I'ES.
though we want perfection; but we cannot be said to worship him, if
we want sincerity; a statue upon a tomb, with eyes and hands lifted
up, ofers as good and true a service; it wants only a. voice, the ges-
tures and postures are the same; nay, the service is better; it is not a
mockery; it represents all that it can be framed to; but to worship
without om' spirits, is a presenting God with a picture, an echo,
voice, and nothing else; a compliment; a mere lie; a “ compassin
him about with lies.”f` Without the heart the tongue is a liar; and
the greatest zeal a dissembling with him. To present the spirit. is
to present with that which can never naturally die; to present him
oul the body, is to present him that which is every day crumbling
to cirust, and will at last lie rotting in the grave; to ofer him a few
rags, easily torn; a skin for a sacrifice, a thing unworthy the majes-
ty of God; a ‘fixed eye and elevated hands, with a sleepy heart and
earthly soul, are pitiful things for an ever-blessed and glorious Spirit:
nay, it is so far from being spiritual, that it_is blasphemy; to pretend
to be a Jew outwardly, without being so inward y, is, in the judg-
ment of Christ, to blaspheme.8 And is not the same title to be given
with as much reason to those that retend a worship and rform
gone? gpch a one is pot a spiritualpworshipper, but a blaspgiming
evil in muel’s mant e.
4. Spiritual worship is performed with an `l1I1if£dB6SS of heart.
The heart is not only now and then with God, but “united to fear
or worship his name. ’h A s iritual duty must have the engagement
of the ipirit, and the thoughts tied up to the spiritual object. The
union o all the parts of the heart together wit the body is the life
of the body; and the moral union of our hearts is the life of any
duty. A heart quickly Hitting from God makes not God his treasure;
he slights the worshi , and therein aifronts the object of worship.
All our thou hts ought to be ravished with God; bound up in him
as in" a bundle of life; but when we start from him to gaze alter
every feather, and rim after every bubble, we disown a full and
atfecting excellency, and a satisfying sweetness in him. When our
thoughts run from God, it is a testimony we have no spiritual affec-
tion to God; affection would stake down the thoughts to the ob`ect
affected; it is but a mouth love, as the prophet praiseth it;i but tliei.
hearts go “ alter their covetousness ;” covetous objects pipe, and the
heart danceth after them; and thoughts of God are shifted oh’ to re-
ceive a multitude of other imaginations; the heart and the service
staid awhile together, and then took leave of one another. The
Psalmist* still found his heart with God when he awaked; still with
God in spiritual affections and Bxed meditations. A carnal heart is
seldom with God, either in or out of worship; if God should knock
at the heart in any duty, it would be fbund not at home, but stray-
ing abroad. Our wors ip is spiritual when the door of the heart is
‘shut against all intr ideis, as our Saviour commands in closet-duties*
It was not his meaning to command the shutting the closetfdoor, and
leave the heart-door o for every thought that would be a t to
uaunt us. Worldly alilfaltions are to be laid aside if we would have
' Hes. xi. 12. I' Rev. ii. 9. \ Psalm lxxxvi. ll.
*Ezekxxxiii 81. 5Psalmxxxix.18. |Matt..vi.0.
I

