ON srmrruar, wonsmr. 227
our worshipmspiritual; this was meant by the Jewish custom of wip~
ing or was ` g off the dust of their feet before their entrance into
the temple, and of not bringing mone in their girdles. To be
spiritual in worship, is to have our souls thercd and bound up
wholly in themselves, and offered to Got? Our loins must be
En., as the fashion was in the eastern countries, where they wore
ng garments, that they might not waver with the wind, and be
blown between their legs, to obstruct them in their travel: our facul-
ties must not hang loose about us. He is a carnal worship er that
gives God but a piece of his heart, as well as he that denies  the
whole of it; that hath some thoughts pitched upon God in worship,
and as many willingly upon the world. David sought God, not
with a moiety of his heart, but with his “whole heart;" with his
entire frame;'“ he brought not half his heart, and left the other in
the posession of another master. It was a good lesson Pythagpras
gave his scholars," “ Not to make the observance of God a wor by
the bye.” If those guests be invited, or entertained kindly, or if
thpy come unexpected, the spirituality of that worship is lost; the
so kicks down what it wrought before: but if they be brow-beaten
by us, and our grief rather than our leasure, they divert our spirit-
ual intention from the work in hand: but hinder not God’s accept-
ance of it as spiritual, because they are not the acts of our will, but
oilences to our wills.
5. Spiritual worship is performed with a spiritual activity, and sen-
sibleness of God; with an active understanding to meditate on his
exeellency, and an active will to embrace him when he dro s upon
the soul. If we understand the amiableness of God, our agections
will be ravished; if we imderstand the immensity of his goodness,
our spirits will be enlarged. We are to act with the highest inten-
tion suitable to the greatness of that God with whom we have to do
(Psalm cl. 2): “Praise him according to his excellent greatness;”
not that we can worship him e ually, but in some proportion the
frame of the heart is to be suitetd to the excellency of the object;
our spiritual strength is to be put out to the utmost, as creatures that
act naturally do. The sun shines, and the fire burns to the utmost
of their natural power. This is so necessary, that David, a spiritual
wcrshipper, prays for it before he sets upon acts of adoration (Psalm
lxxx. 18): “Quicken us, that we may call upon thy name ;” as he
was loth to have a. drowsy faculty, he was lot to have a drowsy in-
strument, and would willingly have them as lively as himself (Psalm
lvii. 8); “Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp; I myself
will awake early.” How would this divine soul screw himself up to
God, and be turned into nothing but a. holy flame! Our souls must
be boiling hot when we serve the Lord.° The heart doth no less
bum when it spiritually comes to God, than when God doth spirit-
ually approach to it;P a Nabal’s heart, one as cold as a stone, cannot
offer up a spiritual service. Whatsoever is enjoined us as our duty,
ought to be performed with the greatest intenseness of our spirit. As it
' Psalm cxix.10.
' O15 yrlp frzipepyov del 1roeIu04u fail 9¢6v. lamblic. lib. i. c. 518. p. 87.
‘ Bom.   11, ;f0l*1’¢[¢ I Luke xxiv. 82.

