228 crmurocx ON run Arrarsurss.
is our dnty to pray, so it is our duty to pray with the most fervent
importunity. t is our duty to love God, but with the purest and
most sublime affections; every command of God requires the whole
strength of the creature to be employed in it. T`nat love to God
wherein all our duty to God is summed up, is to be with all our
strength, with all our might, &c.°1 Though rn the covenant of grace
he hath mitigated the severity of the law, and requires not from us
such an elevation of our affections as was pomible in the state of in-
nocence, yet God requires of us the utmost moral industry to raise
our aifections to a pitch, at least equal to what they are in other
things. What strength of affection we naturally have, ought to be
as much and more excited in acts of worship, than upon ot er occa-
sions and our ordinary works. As there was an inactivity of soul in
worship, and a. quickness to sin, when sin had the dominion; so
when t e soul is s iritualized, the temper is changed; there is an in-
activity to sin, and an ardor in duty; the more t e soul is “ dead to
sin,” t e more it is “alive to God,’ f and the more lively too in all
that concerns God and his honor; -for grace being a new strength
added to our natural, determines the aifections to new objects, and
excites them to a greater vigor. And as the hatred of sin is more
sharp, the love to everything that destroys the dominion of it is
more strong; and acts of worship may be reckoned as the chiefest
batteries against the power of this inbred enemy. When the Spirit
is in the soul, like the rivers of waters flowing out of the belly, the
soul hath the activity of a river, and makes haste to be swal owed
up in God, as the streams of the river in the sea. Christ makes his
pppple “kings and priests to God;"' first kings, then priests; gives
t a royal temper of heart, that they may o er spiritual sacrinoes
as priests, kings and priests to God, acting with a magnificent spirit
in all their motions to him. We cannot be spiritual priests, til we
be spiritual kings. The Spirit a geared in the likeness of fire, and
where he resides, commumcates,   e iire, purity and activity. Dul-
ness is against the light of nature. I do not remember that the
heathen ever offered a snail to any of their false deities, nor an ass,
but to Priapus, their unclean idol; but the Persians sacrificed to the
sun a horse, a swift and generous creature. God rovided against
those in the law, commanding an ass’ firstling, the oflixpring of a
sluggish creature, to be redeemed, or his neck broke, but by no means
to be oifered to him! God is a Spirit infinitely active, and therefore
frozen and benumbed frames are immutable to him; he “rides upon
a cherub" and flies; he comes_ u n the “wings of the wind;’ he
rides upon a “ swih cloud ;”“ andpéherefore demands of us not a dull
reason, but an active spirit. God is a living God, and therefore must
have a livel service. Christ is life, and slothiiil adorations are not
fit to be otgered up in the name of life. The worship of God is
called wrestling in Scripture; and Paul was a striver in the ser-
vice of his Mast/er,1 “in an agon _"Y Angels worshi ped God
spiritually with their wings on; andy when God command; them to
worship Christ, the next Scripture quoted is, that he makes them
'I Lady Fa1kland's Life, p.`l30. ' Rom. vi. ll. ' Rev. i. 6.
‘ Exod.   18. ‘   1. ' Col. i. 29. I d]0‘Vl&|9‘0(»

