on srmrrmu. woasmr. 229
“llama of fire.”= If it be thus, how may we charige ourselves?
What Paul said of the sensual widow,° that she is “ ead while she
liva,” we may say often of ourselves, we are dead while we worship.
Om-hearts are in duty as the Jews were in deliverances, as those
“ in a dream ;”\' by w ich unexpectedness God showed the greatness
ofhis care and mercy; and we attend him as men in a dream.,
whereby we discover our negligence and folly. This activity doth
not consist in outward acts; the body may be hot, and the heart
ma be faint, but in an inward stirring, meltings, Hights. In the
high& raptmwes the body is most insensible. Strong spiritual affec-
tions are abstracted 'dom outward sense.
6.   worship is performed with actin spiritual habits.
When all the living springs of grace are opened, as the fountains
of the deep were in the deluge, the soul and all that is within it, all
the spiritual impresses of God upon it, erect themselves to “bless
hh holiy name.”° This is necessary to make s. worship spiritual. As
agents are determined to act suitable to their p)roper nature,
so rational agents are to act conformable to a rational eing. When
there is a conformity between the act and the nature whence it
llows,itisagood act in its kind; if it be rational, itisagoodra-
tional act, because suitable to its principle; as a man endowed with
reason must act suitable to that endowment, and exercise his reason
in his acting; so a Christian endued with grace, must act suitable tc
that nature, and exercise his grace in his acting. Acts done by a
nalanal inclination are no more human acts than the natural acts of
a beast may be said to be human; though they are the acts of a man,
m he is the enicient cause of them, yet they are not human acts, be-
cause they arise not from that principle of reason which denominates
him a man. S0 acts of worship performed by a bare exercise of
rmson, are not christian and spiritual acts, because they come not
from the principle which constitutes him a Christian; reason is not
the princ` le, for then all rational creatures would be Christians.
They oughl, therefore, to be acts of a higher princi le, exercises of
that grace whereby Christians are what the are; notlmt that rational
mis in worship are due to God, for worship is due from us as men,
and we are settled in that rank of being by our reason. Grace doth
not exclude reason, but ennobles it, and calls it up to another form ;
but we must not rest in a bare rational worship, but exert that prin~
giple whereby we are Christiana To worship God with our reason,
B to worship him as men; to worship God with our grace is to wor-
ship him aa Christians, and so spiritually; but to worship him only
with our bodies, is no better than brutes. Our desires of the word
are to isue from the regenerate principle (1 Pet.   2): “ As new-born
babes desire the sincere milk of the word;” it seems to be not a
comparison, but a restriction. _ All worship must have the same
Qring, and be the exercise of that princi le, otherwise we can have
no communion with God. Friends that have the same habitual dis~
pvilions, have a fundamental fitness for an agreeable converse with
Oneanoflier; but if the temper wherein their likeness consists be
ilrnguishing, and the   out of tune, there is not an actual fitness;
|&h,i'] l1Tim.v.6. "Psa.lmcxxvi.1. lPsa1mciii.l

