230 om.RNocx ON 'run nrnmurns.
and the present indisposition breaks the converse, and renders the
company troublesome. Though we ma have the habitual graces
which compose in us a resemblance to god, yet for want of acting
those suitable dispositions, we render ourselves unht for his converse,
and make the worshi , which is fundamentally spiritual, to become
actually carnal. As tlle will cannot naturally act to any object but
by the exercise of its affections, so the heart cannot spiritually act
towards God but by the exercise of graces. This is God’s music
(Eph. v. 193: “Singing and making melody to God in your hearts.”
Singing an all other acts of worship are outward, but the spiritual
melody is “by grace in the heart” (Col. iii. 16): this renders it a
spiritual worship; for it is an effect of the fulness of the spirit in
t e soul, as (ver. 19), “But be filled with the Spirit.” The over-
Howing of the Spirit in the heart, setting the soul of a believer thus
on work to make a spiritual melody to God, shows that something
higher than bare reason is put in tune in the heart. Then is the
fruit of the garden leasant to Christ, when the Holy Spirit, “ the
north and south wind, blow upon the spices,” and strike out the fra-
grancy of them.d Since God is the Author of graces, and bestows
them to have a glory from them, they are best emplo ed about him
and his service. It is fit he should have the cream oty his own gifts.
Without the exercise of grace we perform but a work of nature,
and offer him a few dry bones without marrow. The whole set of
graces must be one way or other exercised. If any treble be want-
ing in a lute, there will be great, defect in the music. If any one
spiritaé string bl? dpll, the spiritual harmony of worship will be
s oile . And t ere ore;
pl. Faith must be acted in worship; a confidence in God. A
natural worship cannot be performed without a natural confidence
in the goodness of God; whosoever comes to him, must regard him
as a rewarder, and a faithful Creator! A spiritual worship cannot
be erformed without an evangelical conidence in him as a gracious
Redieemer. To think him a tyrant, meditating revenge, damps the
soul; to regard him as a Tqacious king, fiill of tender bowels, spirits
the affections to him. e mercy of God is'the proper object of
trust (Psalm xxxiii. 18): “The eye of the Lord is upon them that
fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy.” The worship of God
in the Old Testament is most described by fear; in the New Testa
ment b faith. Fear, or the worship of God, and hope in his mercy
are linked together; when they go hand in hand, the accepting eye
of God is upon us; when we do not trust, we do not worship. 'lhose
of Judah had the temple-worship among them, especially in J osiah’s
time (Zeph. iii. 2), the time of t at prophecy; yet it was accounted
no worship, because no trust in the worshippers. Interest in God
cannot be 1I1'l roved without an exercise of fait . The gospel-worship
is prophesied of, to be a confidence in God, as in a husband more
than in a lord (Hos. ii. 16): “Thou shalt call me Ishi, and shalt call
me no more Baali." “Thou shalt call meg" that is, thou shalt wor-
ship me, worship being often comprehended under invocation. More
confidence is to be exercised in a husband or father, than in a lord
'| Cant. iv. 16. ° Heb. xi. 6.

