ON srmrruar. woasmr. 231
or master. If a man have not faith, he is without Christ; and though
a man be in Christ by the habit of faith, he erforms a duty out of
Christ without an act of faith: without the habit of faith, our persons
are out of Christ; and without the exercise of faith, the duties are
out of Christ. As the want of faith in a rson is the death of the
soul, so the want of faith in a service is ihee death of the offering.
Though a man were at the cost of an ox, yet to kill it without bring-
ing it to the “door of the tabernacle,” was not a sacrifice, but a mur-
der (Lev. xvii. 3, 4). The tabernacle was a type of Christ, and a
look to him is necessary in every spiritual sacniice. As there must
be faith to make any act an act of obedience, so there must be faith
to make any act of worship spiritual. That service is not spiritual
that is not vital; and it cannot be vital without the exercise of a
vital princi le; all spiritual life is “hid in Christ," and drawn from
him by faith (Gal. ii. 20%. Faith, as it hath relation to Christ, makes
every act of worship a iving act, and, consequently, a spiritual act.
Habitual unbelief cuts us off from the bod ' of Christ (Rom. xi. 20):
“Because of unbelief they were broken off?" and a want of actuated
belief breaks us off from a present communion with Christ in s irit.
As unbelief in us hinders Christ from doing any might work, so
unbelief in us hinders us from doing any mighty spiritualy duty; so
that the exercise of faith, and a confidence in God, is necessary to
every duty.
2. Love must be acted to render a worship spiritual. Though
God commanded love in the Old Testament, yet t e manner of giv-
ing the law bespoke more of fear than love. The dispensation of
the law was with fire, thunder, &c., proper to raise horror, and
benumb the spirit; which eifcct it had upon the Israelites, when
they desired that God would speak no more to them. Grace is the
genius of the gospel, proper to excite the affection of love. The law
was given by the “disposition of angels," with signs to amaze; the
gospel was ushered in with the “songs of angels,” composed of peace
an good-will, calculated to ravish the soul; Instead of the terrible
voice of the law, “Do this and live,” the comfortable voice of the
glmsdpel is, “ Grace, gracel” Upon this account the principle of the
Testament was fear, and the worship often ex ressed by the fear
of God. The rinciple of the New Testament is lbve. The Mount
Sinai gendereth to bondage (Gal. iv. 44); Mount Sion, from whence
the gospel or evangelical law goes forth, gendereth to libert ; and
therefore the “spirit of bondage unto fear," as the property of the law,
is opposed to the state of adoption, the principle of love, as the rop-
erty of the gospel (Rom. viii. 15); and there ore the worship otPGod
under the gospel, or New Testament, is oftener ex ressed by love
than fear, as roceeding from higher principles, ang acting nobler
pamions. In this state we are to serve him without fear (Luke i. 74);
Without a bondage fear; not without a fear of unworthy treating
him; with a “fear of his goodness” as it is prophesied of (Hos. ix. 5).
Goodness is not the object of terror, but reverence; God, in the law,
had more the garb of a judge; in the gospel, of a father; the name
ofa father is sweeter and bes oaks more of aifection. As their ser-
vices were with a feeling of tlhe thunders of the law in their con

