232 cnanuocg ON 'ms Arrnrnurss.
sciences, so is our worship to be with a. sense of gospel grace in our
spirits ;u;piritual worship is that, therefore, which is exercised with
a spirit and heavenly affection, proper to the gospel. The heart
should be enlar ed according to the liberty the gospel gives of draw-
ing near to Got? as a father. As he gives us the nobler relation of
children, we are to act the nobler qualities of children. Love should
act according to its nature, which is desired of union; desire of a
moral union by affections, as well as a mystical union by faith; as
fiame aspires to reach flame, and become one with it. In every act
of worshi we should endeavor to be united to God, and become one
spirit with him. This grace doth spiritualize worship; in that one
word, love, God hath wrapt up all the_devotion he requires of us; it
is the total sum of the first table, “Thou shalt love the Lord thy
God :” it is to be acted in everything we do; but in worship our
hearts should more solemnly rise u and acknowledge him amiable
and lovel , since the law is stripped? of its cursing power, and made
sweet in the blood of the Redeemer. Love is a thing acceptable of
itself] but nothing accedptable without it; the gifts of one man to
another are spiritualize b it. We would not value a present with-
out the aifection of the dbnor; every man would lay claim to the
love of others, though he would not to their ppssessions. Love is
God’s right in every service, and the noblest t ing we can bestow
upon him in our adorations of him. God’s gifts to us are not so esti~
mable without his love; nor our services valuable b him without
the exercise of a choice affection. Hezekiah regarded, not his deliv~
erance without the love of the Deliverer; “ In love to my soul thou
hast delivered me” (Isa. xxxviii. 17). So doth God say, In love to
my honor thou hast worshipped me: so that love must be acted, to
render our worship spiritual.
3. A spiritual sensibleness of our own weakness is ncoesary; to
make our worship spiritual. Aifections to God cannot be wit out
relentings in ourselves. When the eye is spiritually fixed upon a
spiritual God, the heart`will mourn that the worshi is no more
spiritually suitable. The more we act love upon Greg, as amiable
and gracious, the more we should exercise grief in ourselves, as we
are vile and olfending. Spiritual worship is a melting worship, as
well as an elevating worship; it exalts God, and debaseth the crea-
ture. The Publican was more spiritual in his humble address to God,
when the Pharisee was wholly carnal with his swelling language. A
spiritual love in worship will make us grieve that we have given him
so little, and could ive him no more. It is a part of spiritual duty
to bewail our carnaity mixed with it; as we receive mercies spiritu-
ally, when we receive them with a sense of God’s goodness and our
own vileness; in the same manner we render a spiritual worship.
4. Spiritual desires for God render the service spiritual; when the
soul “follows hard after him" (Psalm lxiii. 8); pursues after God as
a God of infinite and communicative goodness, with sighs and groans
unutterable. A spiritual soul seems to be transformed into hunger
and thirst, and becomes nothing but desire. A carnal worshipper is
taken with the beauty and magnificence of the temple; a spiritual
worsliipper desires to see the glory of God in the sanctuary (Psalm

