on srmrrun. wonsmr. 283
lxiii. 2), he pants after God: as he came to worship, to 'rind God, he
boils up in desires for God, and is loth to o hom it without God,
“the living God” (Psalm xlii. 2). He would see the Urim and the
Thummim; the unusual sparkling of the stones upon the high-priest’s
breast-plate. That deserves not the title of spiritual worship, when
the soul makes no longin inquiries: “Saw you him whom my soul
loves ?” A spiritual worshi is when our desires are chiefly for God
in the worshipg as David   to dwell in the house of the Lord;
but his desire is not terminated there, but to behold the beaut of
the Lord (Psalm xxvii. 4), and taste the ravishing sweetness oiyhis
presence. No doubt but `Elijla.h's desires for the enjoyment of God
while he was mounting to eaven, were as Hery as the chariot
wherein he was carried. Unutterable groans acted in worship are
the init of the Spirit, and certainly render it a spiritual service
(Rom.   2% Strong  are agreeable to God, and prepare
us to eat the 't of wo p. A spiritual Paul presseth forward to
know Christ, and the power of his resurrection; and a s iritual wor-
shipper actnall aspires in every duty to know God, and) the power
of grace. 'Ili desire worship as an end is carnal; to desire it as a
means, and act desires in it for communion with God in it, is spiritual,
and the fruit of a spiritual life.
5. Thankfulness and admiration are to be exercised in spiritual
service. This is a worship of irits; praise is the adoration of the
blessed angels (Isa. vi. 3 , anil) of gloriiied s irits (Rev. iv. 11):
“Thou art worthy, O Lor to receive glory and) honor, and power;"
and (Rev. v. 13, 14), they worship him ascribing “Blessin , honor,
glory, and power to Him that sits upon the throne, and to the Lamb
orever an ever.” Other acts of worship are confined to this life,
and leave us as soon as we have set our foot in heaven; there, no
notes but this of raise are warbled out; the power, wisdom, love,
and gram in the sispensation of the gospel, seat themselves in the
thoughts and tongues of blessed souls. Can a worship on earth be
¥>hiritual, that hath no mixture of an eternal heavenly duty with it?
e worship of God in innocence had been chiefly an admiration of
him in the works of creation; and should not our evangelical worship
be an admiration of him in the works of redemption, which is a
restoration to a better state? After the petitioning for fpardoning
Ehwe (Hoa. xiv. 2), there is a rendering the calves or hei ers of our
ps, alluding to the heifers used in eucharistical sacrilices. The
pmise of God is the choicest sacrifice and worship under a dis usa-
tion of redeeming grace; this is the prime and eternal part oiiewor-
ship under the gospel. The Psalmist (Psalm cxlix. cl.), speaking of
the gospel times, spurson to this kind of worship; “Sing to the
lord a new song; let the children of Zion be joyful in their king;
let the saints be joyful in glory, and sing aloud upon their beds; let
the high praises of God be in their mouths ;” he begins and ends botb
psalms with “Praise ye the Lord.” That cannot be a spiritual and
evangelical worship, that hath nothing of the praise of God in the
heart. The consi eration of God’s adorable perfections, discovered
111 the gospel, `will make us come to him with more seriousness;
blessings of him with more confidence; ily to him with a win

