28-L crumwocx ON 'rim anurmurns.
faith and love, and more spiritually glorify him in our attendances
u n him.
'   Spiritual worshi is performed with delight. The evangelical
worship _i§lBropheticall)y signified by keeping the feast of tabernacles;
“ They s o u from year to year, to worship the King, the Lord
of Hosts, and tp Keep the feast of tabernacles" (Zech. xiv. 16?: why
that feast, when there were other feasts observed by the Jews That
was a feast celebrated with the greatest joy; typical of the ladness
which was to be under the exhibition of the Messiah, and a Siankful
commemoration of the redemption wrought by him. It was to be
celebrated five days after the “solemn day of -atonement" (Lev.  
84, compared wit ver. 27), wherein there was one of the solemnest
types of the sacrifice of the death of Christ. In this feast they com-
memorated their exchange of Egypt for Canaan; the manna where-
with the were fed; the water out of the rock wherewith they were
refreshed; in remembrance of this, they poured water on the ground,
pronouncing those words in Isaiah, they shall “draw waters out of
the wells of salvation ;” which our Saviour refers to himself (John vii.
37), inviting them to him, to drink “ ugm the last day, the great day
of the feast of tabernacles,” wherein t e solemn ceremony was ob-
served. Since we are freed by the death of the Redeemer from the
curses of the law, God requires of us a joy in spiritual privileges. A
sad frame in worship gives the lie to all gospel liberty, to the pur-
chase of the Redeemer’s death, the triumphs of his resurrection: it
is a carriage, as if we were under the influences of the legal fire and
lightning, and an entering a protest against the freedom of the gos-
pel. The evangelical worship is a spiritual worship; and praise, joy,
and delight are pro hesied of as great ingredients in attendance on
gospel ordinances (lgaiah xii. 3-5). What was occasion of terror in the
worship of God under the law, is the occasion of delight in the worship
of God under the gospel. The justice and holiness of God, so terrible in
the law, becomes comibrtable under the gospel ; since they have feasted
themselves on the active and passive obedience of the Redeemer. The
agproach is to God as gracious, not to God as unpiaciiied; as a son to
a ther, not as a criminal to a judge. Under the w, God was repre-
sented as a judge ; remembering their sin in their sacrifices, and
representing the punishment they had merited: in the gospel as a
father, accepting the atonement, and publishing the reconciliation
wrought by the Redeemer. Delight in God is a gospel frame; there-
fore the more joyful, the more spiritual: “ The sabbath is to be a de
light ;” not only in regard of the day, but in regard to the duties of
it (Isa. lviii. I3); in regard of the marvellous work he wrought on
it; raising up our blessed Redeemer on that day, whereby a founda-
tion was lai for the rendering our persons and services acce table
to God (Psalm cxviii. 243; “This is the day which the Lord) hath
made, we will be glad an rejoice in it.” A umpish frame becomes
not a day and a duty, that hath so noble and spiritual a mark upon
it. The angels, in the first act of worshi aiter the creation, were
highly joyful (Job xxxviii. 7): “They shouted for jov,” &c. The
saints have particularly acted this in their worship. David would
not content himself with an approach to the altar, without going ta

