on srmrrnn. wonsmr. 235
Bud as his “ exceeding 'oy” (Psalm xliii.°4). My triumphant jo r
when he danced before the ark, he seems to be transformed into is
light and pleasure (2 Sam. vi. 14, 16). He had as much delight in
worship, as 01211813 had in their harvest and vintage. And those that
took joyfnlly the spoiling of their goods, woul as jféyfully attend
upon the communications of God. Where there is a ulness of the
Spirit, there is a “ waking melody to God in the heart ” (E h. v. 18,
19); and where there is an acting of love (as there is in all) spiritual
services), the proper &uit of it is joy in a near approach to the object
ofthe soul’s aH’ection. Love is appetzluq uftlhfllk ; the more love, the
more delight in the approachingsof God to the soul, or the outgoings
ofthe soul to God. As the object of worship is amiable in a spiritual
eye, so the means tendingvto a communion with this object are de~
lightful in the exercise. here there is no delight in a duty, there
is no delight in the object of the duty; the more of grace, the more
of pleasure in the actings of it; as the more of nature there is in any
natural agent, the more ofpleasure in the act, so the more heavenly
the wolshi , the more spiritual. Delight is the frame and temper of
glorv. A heart filled up to the brim with joy, is a heart illed u to
the brim with the Spirit; jo is the fruit of the H01 Ghost (Gali v.
22). (1.) Not the joy of Gocils dispensation flowing fiom God, but a
gracious active joy streaming to God. There is a jo , when the com-
tbrts of God are dropped into the soul, as oil upon the wheel; which
indeed makes the faculties move with mollpnsipeed and activity in his
service, like the ehariots of Aminadab; a soul may serve God
in the strenq; of this taste, and its delight terminate in the sensible
comfort. 'l ` is not the joy I mean, but such a jo that hath God
in' its object, delighting in him as the term, in worsliip as theway to
him; the first is God's dispensation, the other is our duty; the first is
an act of God’s favor to us, the second a sprout cv" habitual grace in
us. The comforts we have from God may elevate our duties; but
the grace we have within doth spiritualize our duties. (2.) Nor is
every delight an argument of a spiritual service. All the requisite:
to worship must be taken in. A man may invent a worship and de-
light in it; as Micah in the adoration of his idol, when he was glad
he had got both an Ephod and a Levite (Judges xvii). As aman
may have a contentment in sin, so he ma have a contentment in wor-
ship; not because it is a worship of God, but the worshi of his own
invention, agreeable to his own humor and design, as (lsa. lviii. 2)
it is said, the “delighted in approaching to Grod;” but it was for
anal ends. J§ovelty engenders complacency; but it must be a wor-
ship wherein God will delight; and that must he a worship accord-
ingto his own r\1le and infinite wisdom, and not our shallow fancies
God requires a cheerfulness in his service, especially under the gos-
pel, where he sits upon a throne of grace; discovers himself in his
lmisbleness, and acts the covenant of grace, 'and the sweet relation
afaflather. The priests of old were not to sully themselves with any
DITDW, when they were in the exercise of their functions. God “ppt
gba; go thg natural affections of Aaron and his sons, when N b
md Abghu had been cut off by a severe hand of God (Lev. x. 6).
Every true Christian in a. higher order of priesthood, is a person

