236 CHARNOCK ON 'nm Arrmsurns.
dedicated to joy and peace, offering himself a lively sacrifice of praise
and thanksgivrn ; and there is no christian duty, but is to be set oii'
and seasoned witi cheerfulness: he that loves a cheerful giver in acts
of charity, requires no less a cheerful spirit in acts of worship; as this
is an ingredient in worship, so it is the means to make your spirits
intent in worship. When the heart trium hs in the consideration of
divine excellency and goodness, it will se angry at anything that
offers to jog and disturb it.
7. Spiritual worship is to be performed, though with a delight in
God, yet with a deep reverence of God. The gospel, in advancing
the spirituality of worship, takes oi' the terror, but not the reverence
of God; which is nothing else in its own nature, but a due and high
wteem of the excellenéy of a thingaccording to the nature of it;
and, therefore, the gospel resenting us with more illustrious notices
of the glorious nature of Gpod, is so far from indulging any disesteem
of him, that it uires of us a greater reverence suitable to the height
of its discoveryjealrove what could be spelt in the book of creation;
the gospel worship is therefore ex resse by trembling (Hos. xi. 10 :)
“They shall walk after the Lord); he shall roar like a lion; when
he shall roar, then the children shall tremble hom the West” When
the lion of the tribe of Judah shall lift up his powerful voice in the
gospel, the western Gentiles shall run trembling to walk alter the
rd; God hath alwa attended his greatest manifestations with re-
markable characters ofy majesty, to create a reverence in his creature:
he caused the “ wind to march before him,” to cut the mountain,
when he manifested himself to Elijah (1 Kings xix. ll); “ A wind
and a cloud of fire,” before that magnificent vision to Ezekiel (cha .
i. 4, 5) ; “ Thunders and lightnings” before the giving the law (Exo§_
xix. 18); and a “mighty wind” before the giving the Spirit (Acts
  God requires of us an awe of him in the very act of perform-
ance. The angels are p1u‘e, and cannot fear him as sinners, but in
“ reverence they cover their faces” when they stand before him (Isa.
vi. 2) : his power should make us reverence him, as we are creatures;
his justice, as we are sinners; his goodness, as we are restored creat-
ures. “God is clothed with unspeakable majesty; the glory of his
face shines brighter than the lights of heaven in their beauty. Be-
fore him the angels tremble, and the heavens melt; we ought not
therefore to come before him with the sacrifice of fools, nor tender a
duty to him, without falling low upon our faces, and bowing the
knees of our hearts in token of reverence.”f Not a slavish fear, like
that of devils; but a “godly fear,” like that of saints (Heb.   28);
joined wth a sense of an unmovable kingdom, becometh us; and
this the apostle calls a grace necessary to make our service accept-
able, and therefore the grace necessary to make it spiritual, since
nothing iinds admission to God, but what is of a spiritual nature.
The consideration of his glorious nature should imprint an awful re-
spect Qrpon oru' souls to him; his goodness should make his majesty
more orable to us, as his majesty makes his goodness more admirable
in his condescensions to us. As God is a Spirit, our worship must
be spiritual; and being, as he is, the supreme Spirit, our worship
U Daille, sur 8 Jesu. p. 150.

