on srrnrrun. wonsmr. 287
must be reverential; we must observe the state he takes upon him
in his ordinances; “ He is in heaven, we upon the earth ;” we must
not therefore be “ hasty to utter anything before God” (Eccles v. 7).
Consider him a Spirit in the highest heavens, and ourselves spirits
dwelling in a dre earth. Loose and garish frames debase himto
our own quality ;g§li'ght postures of spirit intimate him to be a slight
and mean being; our being in covenant with him, must not lower
our awful a prehensions of him; as he is the Lord thy God, it is a
glorious and) fearful name, or wonderful (Deut. xxviii. 58); though
e lay by his justice to believers, he doth not lay b his majesty;
when we have a confidence in him, because he is the liord our God,
we must have awful thoughts of his majesty, because his name is
glpgious. God is terrible from his holy places, in regard of the ireat
t ` gs he doth for his Israel (Psalm lxviii. 35); we should be ave
ourselves with that inward honor and respect of him, as if he were
present to our bodily eyes; the higher a'pprehensious we have of his
majesty, the greater awe will be upon our hearts in his presence, and
the greater spirituality in our acts. We should manage our hearts
so, as if we had a view of God in his heavenly glo _
8. Spiritual worship is to be performed with humlility in our spirits.
This is to follow u n the reverence of God. As we are to have
high thou hts of (i)<i)d, that we may not debase him; we must have
low thougits of ourselves, not to vaunt before him. When we have
right notions of the Divine Majesty, we shall be as worms in our
own thoughts, and creep as worms into his presence; we can never
consider him in his glory, but we have a fit opportunity to reflect
upon ourselves, and consider how basely we revolted from him, and
how graciously we are restored by him. As the gospel affords us
greater discoveries of God’s nature, and so enhanceth our reverence
of him, so it helps us to a fuller understanding of our own vileness
and weakness, and therefore is proper to engender humility; the
more spiritual and evangelical t erefore any service is, the more
humble it is. That is a spiritual service that doth most manifest the
glory of God; and this cannot be manifested by~ us, without mani-
esting our own emptiness and nothingness. The heathens were sen-
sible of the necessit of humility b the ligiht of nature ;K after the
name of God, signitiied by 'EF inscri&d on t e temple at Delphos, fol-
loyved I`~G»0l frmvfov, whereby was insinuated, that when wc have to
do with God., who is the only Em, we should behave ourselves with
.A sense of our own intirmity, and infinite distance from him. As a
person, so a duty leavened with pride, hath nothing of sincerity, and
therefore nothing of spirituality in it '§Hab. ii. 4): “ His soul which
I8 lifted up, is not uprr ht in him.” he elders that were crowned
by God to be kings and riests, to offer spiritual sacrihces, uncrown
themselves in their worship of him, and cast down their ornaments
8% “ his feet”:l\ the Greek word to worship, mrwuvvfiv, signifies to
creep like a dog upon his bell before his master; to lie low. How
deep should our sense be of the privilege of God’s admitting us to
his worshi , and affording us such a mercy under our deserts of
lrathl §ow mean should be our thoughts, both of our person!
I Plutu-ch, MorsL p. 344. \ Bev. iv. 10. compared vith v 10~

