238 cruiufocrc on 'nm srrnmurns.
and performances! How patiently should we wait upon God for
the success of worship I How did Abraham, the father of the faith-
ful, equal himself to the earth, when he supplicated the God of
heaven, and devote himself to him under the tit e of very “ dust and
ashes I” (Gen. xviii. 27.) Isaiah did but behold an evangelical ap-
arition of God and the angels worshipping him, and presently re-
Sects upon his “own uncleanness” (Isa. vi. 5). God’s(presence both
requires and causes humility. How lowly is Davi in his own
opinion, after a magnificent dutiy performed by himself and his
people (1 Chron. xxix. 14): “W o am I? and what is my people,
that we should be able to offer so willingly ?" The more spiritual
the soul is in its carriage to God, the more humble it -is; and the
more gracious God is in his communications to the soul, the lower
it lies. God commanded not the iiercer creatures to beoifered to
him in sacrifices, but lambs and kids, meek and lowly creatures;
none that had stings in their tails, or venom in their tonguesi The
meek lamb was the daily sacrifice; the doves were to be offered by
pairs; God would not have honey mixed with any sacrifice (Lev. ii.
11), that breeds choler, and choler pride; but oil he commanded to
be used, that supples and mollihes the parts. Swellingbepride and
boiling passions render our services carnal; they cannot spiritual,
without a humble sweetness and an innocentsincerity ; one grain of
this transcends the most costly sacrifices: a contrite heart puts a gloss
upon worship (Psalm li. 16, 17). The departlue of men and angels
&om God, began in pride; our applroaches and return to him must
begin in humility; and _therefore those graces, which are bottom-
ed on humility, must be acted in worship, as faith, and a sense of
our own indigence. Om' blessed Saviour, the most spiritual wor-
shitpper, prostrated himself in the garden with the greatest lowliness,
an offered himself upon the crossa sacrifice with t e greatest humil-
ity. Melted souls in worship have the most spiritual conformity to
the person of Christ in the state of humiliation, and his design in
that state; as worship without it is not suitable to God, so neit er is
it advantageous for us. A time of worship is a time of God’s com-
munication. The vessel must be melted to receive the mould it is
designed for; softened wax is iittest to receive a stamp, and a spirit-
ually melted soul fittest to receive a spiritual impression. We can-
not perform duty in an evangelical and spiritual strain, without the
meltmgness and meanness in ourselves which the gospel requires.
9. Spiritual worship is to be performed with holiness. God is a
hol Spirit; a likeness to God must attend the worshipping of God
as lib is; holiness is alway in season; “It becomes his ouse forever"
(Psalm xci. 5). We can never serve the living God till we “have
consciences purged from dead works” (Hebfix. 14). Dead works in
our consciences are unsuitable to God, an eternal hving Spirit. The
more mortified the heart, the more quickened the service. Nothing
can please an iniinite purity but that which is pure; since God is in
his glory, in his ordinances, we must not be in our iilthinem. The
holiness of his Spirit doth sparkle in his ordinances; the holinem of
our spirits ought also to sparkle in our observance of- them. The
~ ‘clllhH1l|}lll$flmY8lliD8l!lIDDl8fllD,A1@Xlld.lbA1€l.L8.¢.12.

