ON SPIRITUAL wonsmr. -289
holiness of God is most celebrated in the worship of angels ;* spirituai
worship ought to be like angelical; that cannot be with souls totally
impure. As there must be perfect holiness to make a worship per-
fectly spiritual; so there must be some degree of holiness to make
it in any measure  God would have all the utensils of the
sanctuary employ about his service to be holy; the inwards of the
sacrifice were to be rinsed thrice! The_crop and feathers of sacri-
ficed doves were to be hung eastward towards the entrance of the
tem le, at a distance from the holy of holies, where the presence of
God, was most eminent (Lev. i. 16). When Aaron was to go into
the holy of holies, he was to “sanctify himself ” in an extraordinary
manner (Lev. xvi. 4). 'I‘he priests were to be bare-footed in the tem-
ple, in the exercise of their ofhce; shoes alway were to be put off
upon holy ground: “ Look to thy foot when thou goest to the house
of God,” saith the wise man (Eccles. v. 1). Strip the affections, the
feet of the soul, of all the dirt contracted; discard all earthly and
base thoughts from the heart. A beast was not to touch the Mount
Sinai, without losing his life; nor can we come near the throne with
brutish alfefzions, without losing the life and fruit of the worship.
An unholy soul degrades himself from a spirit to a brute, and the
worship from spiritual to brutish. Ifany immortilied sin be found
in the life, as it was in the comers to the temple, it taints and pollutes
the worship (Isa. i. 15). All worship is an acknowledgment of the
excellency of God as he is holy; hence it is called, a “sanctif 'ng
God’s name” (Jer.   9, 10); how can any person sanctify (;dd’s
name that hath not a holy resemblance to his nature? If he be not
hcly as he is holy, he cannot worship him according to his excellency
in spirit and in truth; no worship is spiritual wherein we have not
a communion with God. But what intercourse can there be between
a holy God., and an impure creature; between light and darkness?
We have no fellowship with him in any service, unless “we walk in
the light,” in service and out of service, as he is light (1 John i. 7).
The heathen thought not their sacrifices agreeable to God without
washing their hands; whereby the signified the pre aration of
their hearts, before they made the oblation: clean hand.; without a.
pure heart, signify nothing; the name of our hearts must answer the
ppgity of the outward symbols (Psalm xxvi. 6): “I will wash my
ds in innocence, so will I compass thine altar, O Lord;” he would
observe the appointed ceremonies, but not without “cleansing his
heart as well as his hands.” Vain man is a t to rest upon outward
acts and rites of worship; but this must alvway be practised; the
words are in the present tense, “I wash,” “I compass.” Purity in
worship ought to be our continual care. Ifwe would perform a
spiritual service, wherein we would have wmmunion with God, it
must be in holiness; if we would walk with Christ, it must be in
“white” (Rev.   4), alluding to the white garments the priests put
on, when they went to perform their service; as without this we
cannot see God in heaven, so neither can we see the beauty of God
U1 his own ordinances. '
10. Spiritual worship is performed with spiritual ends, with raised
‘ In. ri. 8. Rev. iv. 8. \ Au the Jewish doctors observe on Lev. i. 9.

