240 crunuocz ON 'rim .u'ramU'rrs.
aims _at the glory of God. No duty can be spiritual that hath a car-
nal aim; w ere God is the sole object, he ought to be the principal
end; in all our actions he is to be om' end, as he is the rinciple of
our being; much more in religious acts, as he is the object of our
worship. The worshi of God in Scripture is expressed by the
“seeking of him” (Hdb. xi. 6); him, not ourselves; all is to be
referred to God. As we are “not to live to ourselves, that being
the sign of a carnal state, so we are not to worship for omselves
(Rom. xiv. 7, 8). As all actions are denominated good from their
end, as well as their ob'ect, so upon the same account they are
denominated spiritual. 'llhe end spiritualizeth our natlual actions,
much more our religious; then are our faculties devoted to him
when they centre in him. If the intention be evil, there is nothing
but darkness in the whole service (Luke xi.   The first institu~
tion of the Sabbath, the solemn day for worshi , was to contemplate
the glory of God in his stupendous works oi? creation, and render
him a homage for them (Bev. iv. lt): “ Thou art worthy, O Lord,
to receive honor, glory, and power; or thou hast created all things,
and for thy pleasure the are and were created.” No worship can
be returned without a g{0l'l.liYlIlg of God; and we cannot actually
glorify him, without direct aims at the promoting his honor. As
we have immediately to do with God, so we are immediately to mind
the praise of God. As we are not to content ourselves with habitual
grace, but be rich in the exercise of it in worship, so we are not to
acquiesce in the habitual aims at the glory of God, without the actual
overflowings of our hearts in those aims. It is natural for man to
worship G-od for self; seltlrighteousness is the rooted aim of man in
his worship since his revolt from God, and being sensible it is not to
be found in his natural actions, he seeks for it in his moral and reli-
gious. By the first pride we flung God oii' from being our sovereign,
and from being our end, since a pharisaical spirit struts it in nature
not only to do things to be seen of men, but to be admired by God
(Isa.lvi1i. 3): “Wherefore have we fasted and thou takest no knowl-
edge?" This is to have God worship them, instead of being wor-
shipped b_y them. Cain’s carriage after his sacrifice testiiied some
base end m his worshi ; he came not to God as a subject to a sover-
eign, but as if he had been the sovereign, and God the subject , and
W en his design is not answered, an his desire not gratified, he
roves more a rebel to God, and a murderer of his brother. Such
base scents will rise up in our worship from the body of deatn which
cleaves to us, and mix themselves with our services, as we-_:ds with
the fish in the net. David, therefore, after his people had offered
willingl to the tem le, begs of God that their “hearts might be
prepared to him” Q Ehron. xxix. 18); that their hearts might stand
right to God, wit out any squinting to self-ends. Some present
themselves to God, as poor men offer a present to argreat person:
not to honor him, but to gain for themselves a rewa richer than
their 'tt “What rofit is it that we have kept his ordinance ?”
Svc. (limi. iii. 14). Srdme worship him, intending thereby to make
him amends for the wrong they have done him; wipe of their
scores, and satisfy their debts; ae though a spiritual wrong could ln

