on srrarrun. woasmr. 241
recompensed with a bodily service, and an infinite Spirit be outwitted
and apéaeased by a carnal Battery. Selfis the spirit of carnality; to
preten a homage to God, and intend only the advantage of self; is
rather to mock him than worship him. When we believe that we
ought to be satisiied, rather than God glorified, we set God below
ourselves, imagine that he should submit his own honor to our
advantage; we make ourselves more glorious than God, as though
we were not made for him, but he hath a being onl for us; this is
to have a very low esteem of the majesty of God. vii/'hatsoever any
man aims at in worshi above the glory of God, that he forms as an
idol to himself   of God, and sets up a golden image, God
eoimts not this as a worship. The oiferings made in the wilderness
for forty ears together, God esteemed as not offered to him (Amos
v. 25): “ §ave you offered to me sacrinces and offerings in the wil-
derness forty ears, O house of Israel ?” They did it not to God,
but to themseiives; for their own secu1'ity, and the attainment of the
possession of the promised land. Aaspiritual woishipper performs
not worship for some hopes of carnal vantage; he uses ordinances
as means to bring God and his soul together, to be more Etted to
honor God in the world, in his particular place; when he hath been
inflamed and humble in any address or duty, he gives God the
glory; his heart suits the doxologly at the end of the Lord’s Prayer,
ascribes the kingdom, power, an glory to God alone, and if any
viper of ride starts out upon him, he endeavors presently to shake
it otil That which was the 'first end of our framing, ought to be the
chief end of our acting towards God; but when men have the same
ends in worship as brutes, the satisfaction of a sensitive part, the seré
vice is no more than brutish. The acting for a sensitive end is un-
worthy the majesty of God to whom we address, and unbecoming a
rational creature. The acting for a sensitive end is not a rational,
much less can it be a spiritual service; though the act may be good
in itself; yet not good in the agent, because he wants a due end. We
are, then, spiritual, when we ave the same end in our 'redeemed
services, as God had in his redeeming love, viz., his own glory.
11. Spiritual service is oifered to God in the name of Christ.
Those are only “spiritual sacrifices, that are offered up to God by
Jesus Christ” (1 Pet. ii. 5); that are the fruits of the sanctiiication
of the Spirit, and offered in the mediation of the Son: as the altar
sanctifies the gift, so doth Christ spiritualize our services for God’s
tcoeptarion; as the fire upon the a tar separated the airy and finer
parts of the sacrifice from the terrene and earthly; this is the golden
altar upon which the prayers of the saints are offered up “before
the throne” (Rev. viii. 8?. As all that we have from God streams
through his blood, so al that we give to God aseends by virtue of
his merits. All the blessings God gave to the Israelites came out
of Sion,” that is, from the ospel _hid under the law; all the duties
we present to God are to be resented in Sion, in an evan elical
manner; all our worship must Ric bottomed on Christ. Gm? hath
intended that we should “honor the Son, as we honor the Father ;"
as we honor the Father by offering our service only to him, so we
' Psalm exxxiv. 8 “ The Lord bless thee out of Sion.”
vol.. i.-I 6

