242 crrxnsocx ont 'frm A'rrrusU'rra:s.
are to honor the Son by offering it only in his name; in him alone
God is well pleased, because in im alone he finds our services spir-
itual and worthy of acceptation; we must therefore take fast hold
of him with om' spirits, and the faster we hold him, the more spirit-
ual is our worship. To do anything in the name of Christ, rs not
to believe the worship shall be accepted for itself, but to have our
e e fixed upon Christ for the acceptance of it, and not to rest upon
tlie work done, as carnal people are apt to do. The creatures pre-
sent their acknowledgments to Godu-‘bi man; and man can only pre-
sent his by Christ. It was utterly wful after the luilding of the
temple, to sacrifice an where else; the temple being a type of Christ,
it is utterly unlawful, for us to present our services in any other
name than his. This is the way to be spiritual. If we consider
God out of Christ, we can have no other notions but those of horror
and bondage. We behold him a Spirit, but environed with justice
and wrath for sinners; but the consideration of him in Christ, veils
his justice, draws forth his mercy, represents him more a father than
a judge. In Christ the aspect of justice is changed, and by that the
temper of the creature; so that .in and by this Mediator, we “ can
have a spiritual boldness, and access to God with confidence” (Eph.
  12), whereby the spirit is kept from benumbness and distraction,
and our souls quickened and reiined. The thoughts kept upon
Christ in a duty of worship qmiilai elevates the soul., and spiritual-
izeth the who e service. Sin es our services black, and the
blood of Christ makes both our persons and services white.
To conclude this head. God rs 9. Stpirit infinitely happy, therefore
we must approach to him with cheer ulness; he is a Spirit of infinite
  therefore we must come before him with reverence; he is a
Spirit mfinitely high, therefore we must offer up our sacrifices with
the deepest humility; he is aSpirit iniiniteg hol , therefore we must
address him with purity; he is a Spirit in niteliy glorious, we must
therefore acknowledge his excellency in all that we do, and in our meas-
ures contribute to his gl , by havin the highest aims in his wor-
ship; he is a. Spirit ininiliexly provokediy us, therefore we must offer
up our worship in the name of a pacifying Mediator and Intercexor.
III. The third general is, Why a spiritual worship is due to God,
and to be offered to him. We must consider the object of worship,
and the subject of worship; the worshipper and the worshipped-
God is a spiritual Being; man is a reasonable creature. The nature
of God informs us what is iit. to be presented to him; our own
nature intbrms us what is it to be presented by us.
F Reason I. The best we have is to be presented to God in worship.
c or,
1. Since God is the most excellent Being, he is to be served bv
us with the most excellent thingl we have, and with the choicest
veneration. God is so incompre ensibly excellent, that we cannot
render him what he deserves: we must render him what we are able
to offer: the best of our affections; the flower of our strength; the
cream and top of our spirits. By the same reason that we are bound
to give God the best worshig, we must offer it to him in the best
manner. We cannot give to od anything too good for so blessed

