on srmrrtrai. wonsnrr. 243
a Being; God being a “great king,” slight servicesbecome not his
majesty (Mal. i. 13, 14); it is unbecoming the majesty of God, and
the reason of a creature, to give him a trivial thing; it is unworthy
to bestow the best of our strength on our lust, and the worst and
weakest in the service of God. An infinite Spirit should have aEec-
tions as near to infinite as we can; as he is a Spirit without bounds,
so he should have a service without limits; when we have given
him all, we cannot serve him according to the excellency of his
nature (Josh. xxiv. 19); and shall we give him less than a 1? His
infinite excellency, and our dependence on him as creatures, de-
mands the choicest adoration; our spirits, being the noblest part of
our nature, are as due to him as the service of our bodies, which are
ghe vilest; to serve him with the worst only, is to diminish his
onor.
2. Under the law, God commanded the best to be offered him.
He would have the males, the best of the kind; the fat, the best of
the creature ;“ he commanded them to offer him the iirstlings of the
flock; not the firstlings of the womb, but the Brstlings of the year:
the Jewish cattle having two breeding-times, in the beginning of the
spring and the beinning of September; the latter breed was the
weaker, which Jaco knew (Gen. xxx.) when he laid the rods before
the cattle when they were strong in the spring, and withheld them
when they were feeble in the autumn. One reason (as the Jews say)
why God accepted not the offering of Cain was, because he brought
the meanest, not the best of the fruit; and therefore, it is said, only
that he brought of the “fruit” of the ground (Gen. iv. 3), not the
first of the fruit, or the best of the fruit, as Abel, who brought the
“firstling" of his flock, and the fat thereof (ver. 4).
3. And this the heathen ractised by the light of nature. They
for the most part offered males, as being more worth ; and burnt the
male, not the female frankincense, as it is divided, into those two
kinds; they offered the best, when they offered their children tp
Moloch. Nothing more excellent than man, and nothing dearer to
parents than their children, which are part of themselves. Whei'
the Israelites would have a golden calf for a representation of God
they would dedicate their jewels, and strip their wives and childrez
of' their richest ornaments, to show their devotion. Shall men serv
their dumb idols with the best of their substance, and the strengt
of their souls; and shall the living God have a duller service froi
Us than idols had from them? God requires no such hard, bi
delightful worship from us, our spirits.
4. All creatures serve man, by the rovidential order of Got
with the best they have. As we, by gods appointment, receir
from creatures the best they can give, ought we not with a free W'
to render to God the best we can offer? The beasts give us the
best fat; the trees their best fruit; the sun its best light; the fou
tains their best streams; shall God order us the best from creature
and we put him off with the worst from ourselves?
5. God hath given us the choicest thing he had-a Redeemer th:
was the power of God, and the wisdom of God; the best he had i
' Exod. xxix. 18. The inward ht, not the oflial.

