244 cnamrocx ON 'rim Armmnrrm.
heaven, his own Son, and in himselfa sacrince for us, that we might
be enabled to present ourselves a sacrifice to him. And Christ
offered himself for us, the best he had, and that with the strength of
the Deity through the eternal Spirit; and shall we grudge God the
best part of ourselves? As God would have a worshi from his
creature, so it must be with the best part of his creature. gf we have
“given ourselves to the Lord” (2 Cor. viii. 5% we can worship with
no less than ourselves. What is the man wit out his spirit? If we
are to worship God with all that we have received from him, we
must worship him with the best part we have received from him;
it is but a small glory we can give him with the best, and shall we
deprive him of his right by giving him the worst? As what we are
is from God, so what we are oug t to be for God. Creation is the
foundation of worshi (Psalm c. 2, 3); “Serve the Lord with glad-
ness; know ye that the Lord he is God; it is he that hath made us.”
He hath ennobled us with spiritual affections; where is it iittest for
us to employ them, but upon him? and at what time, but when we
come solemnl to converse with him? Is it justice to deny him the
honor of his hest gift to us? our souls are more his gift to us, than
anything in the world; other things are so given that they are often
taken from us, but our spirits are the most durable gift. Rational
faculties cannot be removed without a dissolution of nature. WeH
then, as he is God, he is to be honored with all the propensions and
ardor that the infiniteness and excellenc of such a Being require,
and the incomparable obligations he hath laid upon us in this state
deserve at our hands. In all our worship, therefore, our minds
ought to be ‘filled with the highest admiration, love, and reverence.
Since our end was to glorify God, we answer not our end, and honor
him not, unless we give him the choicest we have.°`
Reason II. We cannot else act towards God according to the na-
ture of rational creatures. Spiritual worship is due to God, because
of his nature; and due from us, because of our nature. As we are
to adore God, so we are to adore him as men; the nature of a rational
creature makes this impression upon him; he cannot view his own
nature without having this dut strikin upon his mind. As he
knows, by inspection into himself that there was a God that made
him; so, that he is made to be in subjection to God, subjection to
him in his s irit as well as his body, and ought morally to testify
this natural dependence on him. Hrs constitution informs him that
he hath a capacity to converse with God; that he cannot converse
with him, but by those inward faculties; if it could be mana ed by
his body without his s irit, beasts mi ht as well converse   God
as men. It can neverlbe a “ reasonaile service" (Rom.   1), as it
ought to be, unless the reasonable faculties be employed in the man-
agement of it; it must be a worship prodigiously lame, without the
concurrence of the chiefest art of man with it. As we are to act
conformably to the nature olp the object, so also to the nature of our
own faculties. Our faculties, in the very gift of them to us, were
destined to be exercised, about what? What? All other things
but the Author of them. It is a conceit cannot enter into the heart
° Amyraut, Mor. Tom. II. p. 811.

