ON srmrrmu. wonsmr. 2-15
of a rational creature, that he should act as such a creature in other
things, and as a stone in things relating to the donor of them; as a
man, with his mind about him in the affairs of the world; as a beast,
without reason in his acts towards God. If a man did not employ
his reason in other things, he would be an unprofitable creature in
the world: if he do not employ his s iritual faculties in worshi , he
denies them the roper end and use ilir which they were iven him;
it is a practical dlenial that God hath given him a soul, and that God
hath any right to the exercise of it. If there were no worship ap-
pplinted by God in the world, the natural inclination of man to some
` d of religion would be in vain; and if our inward faculties were
not employed in the duties of religion they would be in vain; the
true end of God in the endowment of us with them would be de-
feated by us, as much as lies in us, if we did not serve him with that
which we have from him solely at his own cost. As no man can
with reason conclude, that the rest commanded on the Sabbath and
the sanctification of it, was onl a rest of the body, that had been
performed by the beasts as well as men, but some higher end was
aimed at for the rational creature; so no man can think that the
command for worship terminated only in the presence of the body;
that God should give the command to man as a reasonable creature,
and expect no other service from him than that of a brute. God did
not require a worship from man for any want he had, or any essen-
tial honor that could accrue to him, but that men might testify their
gratitude to him, and dependence on him. It is the most horrid in-
gratitude not to have lively and deep sentiments of gratitude after
such obligations, and not to make those due acknowledgments that
are proper for a rational creature. Religion is the highest and
choicest act of a reasonable creature; no creature under heaven is
capable of it that wants reason. As it is a violation of reason not to
worship God, so it is no less a violation of reason not to worshi him
with the heart and spirit; it is a high dishonor to God, and drefeats
him not onl ' of the service due to him from man, but that which is
due to him irom all the creatures. Ever ' creature, as it is an effect
of God’s power and wisdom, doth passively worship God; that is, it
doth afford matter of adoration to man that hath reason to collect it,
and return it where it is due. Without the exercise of the soul, we
mn no more hand it to God, than without such an exercise, we can
gather it from the creature; so that by this neglect, the creatures are
restrained from answering their chief' end; they cannot pay any ser-
V106 to God without man; nor can man, without the employment
of his rational faculties, render a homage to God, any more than
lkasts can. This engagement of our inward power stands firm and
inviolable, let the modes of worship be what they will, or the
Changes of .them by the sovereign authority of Go never so fre-
quent; this could not expire or be changed as long as the nature of
man endured. As man had not been capable of a command for
Worship, unless he had been endued with spiritual faculties ;` so he is
Het active in a true practice of worship, un ess they be employed by
lum in it. The constitution of man makes this manner of worship
Piirpetually obligatory, and the oblation can never cease, till man

