246 cmnnocr oN rm: .u'mnsU'rns.
cease to be a creature furnished with such faculties; in our worship,
therefore, if we would act like rational creatures, we should extend
all the powers of our souls-to the utmost pitch, and essay to have
anprehensions of God, equal to the excellency of his nature, which,
though we may attempt, we can never attain.
Reason III. Without this engagement of our spirits no act is an
act of worship. True worship, being an acknowledgment of God
and the perfections of his nature, results only from the soul, that
being only capable of knowing God and those perfeetions which are
the object an motive of worship. The posture of the body is but
to testify the inward temper and affection of the mind; ii, therefore,
it testifies what it is not, it is a lie, and no worship; the cringes a
beastmaybetaughttomaketoan altarmcigaswelbecalledwor-
ship, since a man thinks as little of that G he pretends to honor,
as the beast doth of the altar to which he bows. Worship is a rev-
erent remembranoe of God, and giving some honor to him with the
intention of the soul; it cannot justly have the name of worship,
that wants the essential part of it; it is an asoribing to God the glory
of his nature, an owning subjection and obedience to him as our
sovereign Lord; this is as impossible to be performed without the
spirit, as that there can be life and motion in a body without a soul;
it is a drawing near to God, not in regard of his essential presence,
so 'all things are near to God, but in an acknowledgment °of his ex-
cellency, which is an act of the spirit; Without this, the worst of men
in a place of Worship are as near to God as the best. The necessity
of the conjunction of our soul ariseth from the nature of Worship,
which being the most serious thing we can be em loyed in, the
highest converse with the highest object requires the choicest temper
of spirit in the performance. That cannot be an act of worship,
which is not an act of piety and virtue; but there is no act of virtue
done by the members of the body, without the concurrence of the
powers of the soul. We may as well call the presence of a_dead
carcass in a place of worship, an act of religion, as the iilresence of a.
living body without an intent spirit; the separation of t e soul from
one is natural, the other moral; that renders the body lifeless, but
this renders the act loathsome to God; as the bein of the soul gives
life to the bodv, so the: operation of the soul 'ves Tife to the actions.
As he cannot be a man that wants the form ogla man, a rational soul;
so that cannot be a worship that wants an essential part, the act
of the spirit; God will not vouchsafe any acts of man so noble a title
without the re uisite ualihcations (Hos. v. 6): “The shall go with
their flocks and theirqherds to seek the Lord,” &c. X multitude of
lambs and bullocks for sacrifice, to ap ease God’s anger. God would
not give it the title of worshi , thouggx instituted by himself, when
it Wanted the qualities of such) a service. “The spirit of _whoredom
was in the midst of them” (v. 4). In the judgment of our Saviour,
it is a “vain worship, when the traditions of men are taught for the
doctrines of God” (Matt. xv. 9); and no less vain must it be, when
the bodies of men are presented to supply the place of their spirits
As an omission of duty is a contempt of God’s sovereign authority,
so the omission of the manner of it is a contempt of it, and of his

