ON srrarrvan wonsmr. 2-17
amiable exeellency; and that which is a contempt and mockery, can
lay no   claim to the title of worship.
Manson IV. There is in worship an :approach of God to man. It
was instituted to this purpose, that Go might give out his blessings
to man; and ought not our s irits to be pre ared and ready to re-
ceive his communications? IliVe are, in such acts, more peculiarly
in his presence. In the Israelites hearing the law, it is said, God
was to “come among them” (Exod. xix. 10, 11). Then, men are
said to stand before the Lord (Deut. x. 82: “ God, before whom I
stand" (1 Kings, xvii. 1): that is, whom worship; and therefore
when Cain forsook the worship of God settled in his father’s, family,
he is said., “ to o out from the presence of the Lord” (Gen. iv. 16).
God is essentijly present in the world; graciously present in his
church. The name of the evangelical citiy is Je ovah Sharnmah
(Ezek. xlviii. 35), “the Lord is there." Go is more aciously pres-
ent in the evangelical institutions than in the legal; qi-e “loves the
gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob” (Ps. lxxxvii.
?; his evangelical law and Worship which was to o forth from
ion, as the other did from Sinai (lt ic. iv. 2). God delights to ap~
proach to men, and converse with them in the worshi instituted m
the gospel, more than in all the dwellings of Jacob. If God be
graciously present, ought not we to be s irituallv present? A lifeless
carcass service becomes not so high and) delectable apresence as this;
it is to thrust him from us, not invite him to us; it is to practise in
the ordinances what the prophet predicts concerning men s usage of
our Saviour (Isa. liii. 2); “There is no form, no comeliness, nor
beauty that we should desire him.” A slightness in worship refiects
upon the excellency of the object of worship. God and his wor-
ship are so linked together, that whosoever thinks the one not worth
his inward care, esteems the other not worth his inward affection.
How unworthy a slight is it of God, who profers the opening his
treasure; the re-impressing his image; conferring his blessings ; ad-
miis us into his presencefwhen he hath no need for us ; who hath mil-
lions of angels to attend him in his court, and celebrate his praisel
He that worships not God with his spirit, regards not God’s presence
in his ordinances, and slights the great end of God in them, and that
perfection he may attain by them. W'e can only expect what God
ath promised to give, when we tender to him what he hath com-
manded us to present. If we put off God with a shell, he will put
us off wi‘h a husk. How can we expect his heart, when we do not
give him ours ;' or hope for the blessing needful for us, when we
render not the glory due to him? It .cannot be an advantageous
worship without spiritual graces; for those are uniting, and union is
the ground of all wmmunion.
Reason V. To have a spiritual worship is God’s end in the resto-
ration ofthe creature, both in redemption by his Son and sanctifica-
tion by his spirit. A fitness for spiritual offerings was the end of
the “coming of Christ” (Mal. iii. 3); he should purge them as gold
and silver by ire, a spirit burning up their dross, melting them into
a holy compliance with and submission to God. To what purpose?
That they may offer to the lord an offering in righteousness; a pure

