248 , _ cnanrrocx ON mn Arrnrnurms.
offering from a purified spirit; he came to “bring us to God” (1 Pet.
iii. 18) in such a garb, as that we might be fit to converse with him.
Can we be thus, without a fixedness of our iiiis on him? The
offering of spiritual sacrifices is the end of mfsgng any a “ spiritual
habitation” and a “ holy priesthood” (1 Pet. ii. 5). We can no more
be worshippers of God without a worshipper’s nature, than a man
can be a man without human nature. As man was at first created
for the honor and worshi of God, so the design of restoring that
image which was defaced) by sin tends to the same end. We are
not rought to God by Christ, nor are our services presented to him,
if they be without our spirits; would any man that undertakes to
bring another to a prince, introduce him in a slovenly and sordid
habit, such a garb that he knows hateful to him? or bring the
clothes or skin of a man stulfed with straw, instead of the person?
to come with our skins before God, without our spirits, is contrary to
the design of God in redemption and regeneration. If a carnal wor-
ship would have pleased God, a carnal heart would have served his
turn, without the expense of his Spirit in sanctification. He be-
stows upon rnan a spiritual nature, that he may return to him a
spiritual service ; he enlightens the understanding, that he may have
a rational service; and new moulds the will, that he may have a.
voluntary service. As it is the milk of the word wherewith he feeds
us, so it is the service of the word wherewith we must glorify him.
So much as there is of confiisedness in our understanding, so much
of starting and levity in our wills, so much of slipperiness and skip-
ping in our affections; so much is abated of the ue qualities of the
worship of God, and so much we fall short of the end of redemp-
tion and sanctification.
Reason VI. A spiritual worship is to be ofered to God, because
no worship but that can be acceptable. We can never be secured of
acceptance without it; he being a Spirit, nothing but the worship in
irit can be suitable to him: what is unsuitable, cannot be accepta-
ble; there must be something in us, to make our services capable
of being presented b Christ for an actual acceptation. N o service
is “ acceptable to God by Jesus Christ,” but as it is a spiritual sacri-
fice, and oiiered by a spiritual heart (1 Pet. ii. 5). The sacrifice is
first spiritual, before it be acceptable to God by Christ; when it is
“ an o ering in righteousness,” it is then, and only then, leasant to
the Lord (Mal.   3, 4). No prince would accept a iit tgiat is un-
suitable to his majesty, and be ow the condition of the person that
resents it. Would e be pleased with a bottle of water for drink,
gem one that hath his cellar.full of wine? How unacceptable must
that be that is unsuitable to the Divine Majesty l And what can be
more unsuitable .han a withdrawing theo rations of our souls from
him, in the oblation of our bodies? Wgeas little glorify God as
God, when we give him only a corporeal worshi , as the heathen
did, when they represented him in a corporeal sli)ape (Rom. i. 21);
one as well as the other denies his spiritual nature: this is worse,
for had it been lawful to represent God to the eye, it could not have
been done but by a bodily iigure suited to the sense; but since it is
necessary to worship him, it cannot be by a corporeal attendance,

