on srmxrun. wonsmr. 2-L9
without the operation of the Spirit. A spiritual frame is more pleas-
ing to God than the highest exterior adornments, than the greatest
gifts, and the highest rophetic illuminations. “The glory of the
second temple" exceedgd the glo of the first   ii. 8, 9). As
God accounts the spiritual glory olxmrdinances most beneficial for us,
so our spiritual attendance upon ordinances is most pleasing to him '
he that offers the greatest services without it, offers but flesh (Hos
  13): “They sacrifice flesh for the sacrifices of my offerings, but
the Lord accepts them not.” Spiritual frames are the soul of reli-
gious services; all other carriages without them are contemptible to
this spirit: we can never lay claim to that promise of God, none
shall “seek my face in vain.” We affect a vain seeking of him,
when we want a due temper of spirit for him; and vain spirits shall
have vain ret\u'ns: it is more contrax to the nature of God’s holi-
ness to have communion with  uch, an it is contrary to the nature
of (light to have communion with darkness. To make use of this:
ae 1. First it serves for information.
1. If spiritual worship be required by God, how sad is it for them
that they are so far irom giving God a spiritual worship, that they
render him no worship at alll I speak not of the neglect of public,
but of private; when men present not a devotion to God from one
year’s eud to the other. The speech of our Saviour, that we must
worship God in sglirit and truth, implies that a worship is due to him
fiom every one; at is the common impression u n the consciences
of all men in the» world, if they have not bo some constant
course in gross sins, hardened their souls, and   those natural
sentiments. There was never a nation in the world wcithout some
kind of religion; and no religion was ever without some modes to
wstiify a devotion; the heathens had their sacrifices and pprifica-
tions; and the Jews, b God’s order, had their rites, where y they
were to express their allegiance to God. Consider,
(L) Worship is a duty incumbent upon all men. It is a homage
mankind owes to God, under the relation wherein he stands obliged
to him; it is a prime and immutable justice to own our allegiance
to him; it is as unchangeable a truth that God is to be worshipped,
as tlmt God is; he is to be worshipped as God, as creator, andt ere-
ibre by all, since he is the Creator of all, the Lord of all, and “all
are his creatures, and all are his subjects. Worship isfounded upon
creation (Psalm c. 2, 3): it isdue to God for himself and his own
meutial excellency, and therefore due from all; it is due upon the
account of man’s nature; the human rational nature is the same in
all. Whatsoever is due to God u n the account of ma.n’s nature,
and the natural obligations he hatholaid upon man, is due from all
men; because they all enjoy the benefits which are proper to their
nature. Man in no state was exempted, nor can be exempted from
it; in Paradise he had his Sabbath and sacraments; man therefore
dimolves the obligation of a reasonable nature, byeneglecting the
worship of God. Religion is in the first place to minded. As
soon as Noah came out of the ark, he contrived not a habitation for
  but an altar for the Lord, to acknowledge him the authorof
hh preservation, from the deluge (Gen.   20): and whereso-
i

