250 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
ever Abraham came, his first business was to erect an altar, and
pay his arrears of gratitude to God, before he .ran upon the score
v or new mercies (Gen. xii. 7; xiii. 4, 18); he left a testimony of
worshi wherever he came.
(2'£ gl/'holly therefore to neglect it, is a high degree of atheism.
He at calls not upon God, “saith in his heart, There is no God ;"
and seems to have the sentiments of natural conscience, as to God,
stifled in him (Psalm xiv. 1, 4): it must arise from a conceit that
there is no God, or that we are equal to him, adoration not being
due from persons of an etgual stat/e; or that God is unable, or un-
willin to take notice of t e adoring acts of his creatures: what is
any 0? these but an undeifying the supreme Majesty? \Vhen we
lay aside all thoughts of paying any homage to him, we are in a ihir
way o inionatively to deny him, as much as we practically disown
him. lik/here there is no knowledge of God, that is, no “ acknowledg-
ment of God,” a gap is opened to all licentiousness (Hos. iv. 1, 2);
and that bv degrees brawns the conscience, and razeth out the sense
of God. Those forsake God that “forget his holy mountain" (Isa.
lxv. 11); they do not practical] own im as the Creator of their
souls or bodies. It is the sin ofy Cain, who turning his back upon
worship, is said to “go out from the presence of the Lord” (Gen. iv.
16). Not to worship him with our spirits, is against his law of cre-
ation: not to worship him at all, is against his act of creation; not
'to worship him in truth, is hypocrisy; not to worship him at all, is
atheism; whereby we render ourselves worse than the worms in the
earth, or a toad in a ditch.
(3.) 'l‘o perform a worship to a false God, or to the true God in a
false manner, seems to be less a sin than to live in perpetual neglect
of it. Though it be directed to a false object instead of God, yet it
is under the notion of a God, and so is an acknowledgment of
such a Being as God in the world; whereas the total neglect of any
worship, is a practical denying of the existence of any supreme Ma-
jesty. \Vhosoever constantly omits a public and private worship,
transgresses against an universally received dictate; for all nations
have agreed in the common notion of worshipping God, though they
have disagreed in the several modes and rites whereby they would
testify that adoration. By a worship of God, though superstitious,
a veneration and reverence of such a being is maintained in the
world; whereas b a total neglect of worship, he is virtually dis-
owned and discardllzd, if not from his existence, yet from his provi-
dence and government of the world; all the mercies we breathe in
are denied to flow from him'. A foolish worship owns religion,
though it bespatters it; as if a stranger coming into a country mis-
takes the subject for the prince, and pays that reverence to the subject
which is due to the prince; though he mistakes the object, yet he
owns an authority ; or if he ays any respect to thc true prince of
that country after the mode ot? his own, though appearing ridiculous
in the place where he is, he owns the authority of the prince;
whereas the omission of all respect would be a contempt of majesty:
and, therefore, the judgments of God have been more signal upon
the sacrilegious contemneis of worship among the heathens, than upon

