` ox srmrruat woizsrnr. 251
those that were diligent and devout in their false worship; and
they generally owned the blessings received to the. preservation
of a sense and worship of a Deity among them. Though such a
worship be not acceptable to God, and every man is bound to offer
to God a devotion agreeable to his own mind ; yet it is commenda-
ble, not as worship, but as it speaks an acknowledgment of such a
being as God, in his wer and creation, and his beneficence in his
pzovidence. Well, thin, omissions of worship are to be avoided.
t no man execute that upon himself which God will pronounce at
last as the greatest misery, and bid God depart from him, who will
at last be loth to hear God bid him depart from him. Though man
hath natural sentiments that God is to be worshipped, yet having an
hostility in his nature, he is apt to neglect, or give it him in a slight
manner; he therefore sets a particular mark and notice of attention
upon the fourth command, “Remember thou keep holy the Sabbath
day.” Corrupt nature is apt to nevlect the worship of God, and flag
in it. This command, therefore, wchich concerns his worship, he for-
tifies with several reasons. Nor let any neglect worship, because
they cannot find their hearts s iritual in it. 'l‘he further we are
from God, the more carnal shall) we, be. No man can expect heat
by a distance from the sunbeams, or other means of warmth.
Though God commanded a circumcised heart in the Jewish services,
yet he did not warranta neglect of the outward testimonies of re-
`gion he had then appoint/ed. He expected, according to his com-
mand, that- the should offer the sacrifices, and practise the legal
purification he had commanded; he would have them diligently ob-
served, though he had declared that he imposed them only for a
time; and our Saviour ordered the practice of those positive rites as
long as the law remained unrepealcd, as in the case of the leper
(Mark xiv. 4). It is an injustice to refuse the offering ourselves to
God according to the manner he hath in his wisdom prescribed and
required. If spiritual worship be required by God, t en,
2. It informs us, that diligence in outward worship is not to be
rested in. Men may at-tend all their days on worship, with a juice-
less heart and unquickened frame, and think to compensate the neglect
of the manner with abundance of the matter of service.P Outward
expressions are but the badges and liveries of service, not the ser-
vice itselil As the strength of sin lies in the inward frame of the
heart, so the strength of wolshi in the inward complexion and
temper of the soul. What do a tlibusand services avail, without cut-
ting the throat of our carnal affections? What are loud rayers, but
as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals, without divine cliarity? A
péhptléisaical diligence in outward forms, without inward spirit, ad no
r a title vouchsafed by our Saviour than that of ypocritical.
God desires not sacrifices, nor delights in burnt-offerings: shadows
are not to be odered instead of substance. God required the heart
of man ibr itself, but commanded outward ceremonies as subservient
to inward worship, and goads and spurs unto it. They were never
appointed as the substance of religion, but auxiliaries to it. What
ue had the offering of the human nature of Christ been of, if he
I Daiile, Melange des Sermons. Ser. ii.

