252 CHARNOCK ON T  A'1'1‘RIBUTE.
had not had a divine nature to qualifyhimtobethe Priest? and
what is the oblation of our bodies, without a priestly act of the  
in the presentation of it? Could the Israelites have called tbemse ves
worshippers of God according to his order, if they had brought a
thousan lambs that had died in a ditch, or been killed at home?
They were to be brought living to the altar; the blood shed at the
foot of it. A thousand sacrifices killed without had not been so
valuable as one brought alive to the place of offering: one sound
sacrifice is better than a thousand rotten ones. As God took no
pleasure in the blood of beasts without its relation to the Antitype;
so he takes no dpleasiue in the outward rites of worship, without
faith in the Re eemer. To offer a body with a sa less spirit, isa
sacrilege of the same nature with that of the Israelites W en the
offered 'dead beasts. A man without spiritual worship is dead whili;
he worships, thouglh b his diligence in the externals of it,'he may,
like the angel of t e ¢iurch of Sardis, “have a name to live” (Rev.
  1). What secluity can we expect from a multitude of dead ser-
vices? What weak shields are they against the holy eye and re-
venging wrath of God! What man, but one out of his wits, would
solicit a dead man to be his advocate or champion? Diligence in
outward worshi is not to be rested in.
Use II. shall be for examination. Let us try ourselves concerning
the manner of our worshi . We are now in the end of the world,
and the dregs of time; wherein the apostle redicts there may be
much of a form, and little of the power of godliness (2 Tim.   1, 5);
and, therefore, it stands us in hand to search into ourselves, whether
it be not thus with us? whether there be as much reverence in our
spirits as there may be devotion in our countenances and outward
1. ow, therefore, are our hearts prepared to worship? Is our dil-
igence greater to put our hearts in an adoring postlue, than our bod-
ies in a decent gaéb? or are we content to ave a muddy heart, so
we may have a carcass? To have a spirit a cage of unclean
birds, while we wipe the filth from the outsi e of the platter, is no
better than a pharisaical devotion, and deserves no better a name
than that of a whited sepulchre. Do we take opportunities to excite
and guicken our spirits to the performance, and cryl aloud with
Davi , “ Awake, awake, my glor !” Are not our carts asleep
when Christ knocks? When we liiear the voice of God, “ Seek m
{iace;” do we answer him with warm resolutions, “Thy face, Lani
we will seek?" (Ps. xxvii. 8.) Do we comply with gpiritual motions,
and strike whilst the iron is hot? Is there not more o reluctancy than
readiness? Is there a quick rising of the soul in reverence to the
motion, as Eglon to Ehud; or-a sullen hanging the head at the first
approach of it? Or if our hearts seem to be engaged and on fire,
what are the motives that quicken that fire? Is it only the blast of
a natural conscience, fear of hell, desires of heaven, as abstracted
from God? or is it an affection to God; an obedient will to please
him; longings to enjoy him, as a holy and sanctifying God in his
ordinances, as well as a blessed and glorified God in heaven? What
do we expect in our approaches from him? that which may make

