on srmrrun. wonsrnr. 253
shine impremions upon us, and more exactly conform us to the
Divine nature? or do we design nothing but an empty formality, a
rolling eye, and a filling the air with a few words, without any open-
ing of heart to receive the incomes, which, according to the nature
of the duty, ` ht be conveyed to us? Can this be a spiritual wor-
ship? The £3 then closely waits u n him, when its expectation
is only hom him (Psalm lxii. 6). Xie our hearts seasoned with
a sense of sin; a sight of our spiritual wants; raised notions of
God; glowing aifections to him; strong appetite after a spiritual
fulnesl ` Do we rouse up our sleepy splirits, and make a covenant
withall that is within us to attend upon im? So much as we want
of tink, so much we come short of a spiritual worship. In Ps. lvii.
7 (“ My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is Hxed”), David would tix
his heart, before he would engage in a.praising act of worship. He
appeals to God about it, and that with doubling the expression, as
beingcertain of an inward preparedness. Can we make the same
appeals in a fixation of spirit?
2. How are our hearts fixed upon him; how do they cleave to
him in the duty 7 ` Do we resign our spirits to God, and make them
an entire holocaust, a whole burnt-oifering in his worship? or do
we not willingly admit carnal thoxhts to mix themse ves with
spiritual duties, and fasten our min to the creature, under pre-
tenons of directing themtothe Creator? Do we not pass a mere
compliment upon God, by some superficial act of devotion; while
mme covetous, envious, ambitious, voluptuous imagination may
puma our minds? Do we not invert God’s order, and worship a
nd: instead of God with our spirits, that should not have the least
service, either from our souls or bodies, but with a. gpiritual dis-
dain be sacrificed to the just indignation of God? ~ ow often do
we iight against his will, while we clrry, “ Hail, Master I” instead of
cmciifying our own thoughts, cruc` ying the Lord of our lives;
our outward carriage plausible, and our inward stark naught! Do
we not often rd iniquity more than God in our hearts, in a
time of worshipeglroll some filthy imagination as a sweet morsel
under our tongues, and taste more sweetness in that than in God?
Do not our spirits smell rank of earth, while we oifer to heaven;
and have we not hearts full of thick clay, as their “ hands were full
of blood?" (Isa. i. 15.) When we sacrifice, do we not wrap up our
souls in communion with some sordid fanc , when we should
entwine our spirits about an amiable God? %V'hile we have some
fear of him, ma we not have a love to something else above him?
This is to worsiiip, or swear by the Lord, and by Malcham (ileph.
i.5). How often doth an apish mncy render a service inw ly
ridiculous, under a grave outward posture; skipping to the shop,
warehouse, counting-house, in the space of a short rayer! and we
nebefore God as a Babel, a confusion of internal languages; and
this in those parts of worship which are, in the right use, most
lgreeable to God., profitable for ourselves, ruinous to the kingdom
of sin and Satan, and means to bling us into a closer communion
with the Divine Majesty. Can this be a spiritual worship?
8. How do we act our graces in worship? Though the instru-

