254 -cnumocx ON 'rrm xrramnrss.
ment be strung, if the strings be not wound up, what melod cal
be the issue? All readinem and alacrity discover a strength of
nature; and a readiness in spirituals discovers a spirituality in the
hea.rt. As unaffecting thoughts of God are not spiritual thou hts,
so unntfecting addresses to God are not iritual addresses. V%'ell
then, what awakenings, and elevations olpfaith and love have we?
What stron outiiowin of our souls to him? What indignation
against sin? What a<§:1i1°ations of redeeming grace? How low
have we brought our corruptions to the footstool of Christ, to be
made his conquered enemies? How straitly have we clasped our
faith about the cross and throne of Christ, to become his intimate
spouse? Do we in hearing hang upon the lips of Christ; in
prayer take hold of God, and will not let him go; in confessions
rend the caul of our hearts, and indite our souls before him with
a deep humility? Do we act more by a soaring love than a droop-
ing fear? So far as our spirits are servile, so far they are legal
and carnal; so much as they are free and spontaneous, so imueh
they are evangelical and spiritual. As men under the law are sub-
ject to the constraint of “bondage all their life-time” (Heb. ii. 15),
ln all their worshi ; so under the gospel they are under a con~
straint of love (2 Cor. v. 14): how then are believing aifections
exercised, which are alway accompanied with holy fear; a fear of
his goodness that admits us into his presence, and a fear to offend
him in our act of worship? So much as we have of forced or
feeble affection, so much we have of carnality.
4. How do we find our hearts after worship? By an after car-
riage we may judge of the spirituality of it.
(L) How are we as to inward strength? When a worship is
spiritually performed, grace is more_ strengthened, corruption more
mortiied; the soul, like Samson after his awakening, oes out
with a renewed strength; as the inward man is renewed day by
day, that is, every day ; so it is renewed in every worship. Every
shower makes the grass and fruit grow in good ground where the
root is ood, and the weeds where the und is naught; the more
prepared the heart is to obedience in oth.; duties after worship, the
more evidence there is that it hath been spiritual in the exercise of
it. It is the end of God in eve dispensation, as in that of John
Baptist, “to make ready a peodl; prepared for the Lord” (Luke i.
17): when the heart is by worship repared for fresh acts of
obedience, and hath a more exact watchtldlness against the encroach-
ments of sin. As carnal men after worship sprout up in spiritual
wickedness, so do s iritual worshippers in spiritual graces; spiritual
fruits are a sign otp a spiritual frame. When men are more prone
to sin aiter dugy, it is a sign there was but little communion with
God in it; an a greater strength of sin, because such an act is
contrary to the end of worship which is the subduing of sin. It
is a sign the physic hath wrought well, when the stomach hath a
better appetite to its appointed food; and worship hath been well
performe , when we have a stronger inclination to other acts well
pleasing to God, and a more sensible distaste of those temptations
wo too much relished before. It is a sign of a. good concoction,

