ON srnurvar. woasmr. » 255
when there is a greater strength in the vitals of religion, a more
eagr desire to know God. When Moses had been praying to Goa,
an prevailed with him, he puts ulp a. higher request to “behold his
glory" (Exod.   13, 18): W en the appetite stands strong to
tiiller discoveries of God, it is a sign there hath been a spiritual
converse with him.
(2.) How is it especially as to humility? The Pharisees’ wor-
ship was, without dispute, carnal; and we find them not more
humble after all their devotions, but overgrown with more weeds
of spiritual pride;' they performed them as their righteousness.
What men dare plead before God in his day, they plead before him
in their hearts in their da ; but this men wil do at the day of
judgment: “ We have prophesied in thy name,” &c. (Matt. vii. 21).
They show what tincture their services left upon their spirits;
that which excludes them from any acceptation at the last day,
excludes them from any estimation of being spiritual in this day.
The carnal worshippers charge God with injustice in not rewarding
them, and claim an acceptation as a compensation due to them
(Isa. lviii. 3): “Wherefore have we afilicted our souls, and thou
takest no knowledge ?” A spiritual worshipper looks upon his
duties with shame, as well as he doth upon his sins with con-fusion;
and implores the mercy of God for the one as well as the other.
ln Psalm cxliii. 2, the prophet David, atier his sup lications, begs
of God not to enter into judgment with him; and) acknowledges
any answer that God should give him, as a fruit of his faiththlness
to his promise, and not the merit of his worship: “ In thy faithful-
ness answer me,” &c. Whatsoever springs from a. gracious princi~
ple, and is the breath of the Spirit, leaves a man more humble;
whereas, that which proceeds from a stock of natiue, hath the true
blood of nature running in the veins of it; viz., that pride which
is naturally derived from Adam. The breathing of the, Divine
Spirit is, in eve thing, to conform us to our Redeemer; that being
the main work olfyhis ofhce, is his work in every particular chris#
han act influenced by him. New Jesus Christ, in all his actions,
was an exact pattern of all humility. After the institution and cele-
bration of the su per, a. special act of worship in the church, thou h
be had a sense of) all the authorit his Father had given him, yet he
“humbles himself to wash his disciples’ feet” (John xiii. 2-4); and
aiier his sublime rayer (John xvii.), “He humbles himself to the
death, and offers Eimself’ to his murderers, because of his Father’s
pleasure. (John xviii. 13: “When he had spoken those words, he
went over the brook Ke ron into the garden.” What is the end of
Q0d in appointing worshi , is the end of a s iritual heart in offer-
ing it; not his own exaltation, but God’s glbry. Glorifying the
name of God is the fruit of that evangelical worship the Gentiles
Welein time to give to God (Ps. lxxxvi. 92: “All nations which
thouhast made shall come and worship be ore thee, O Lord, and
Shall glorify thy name.” Let us examine, then, what debasing our-
Belves there is in a sense of our own vileness, and distance from so
gloriousa Spirit. Self-denial is the heart of all gospel grace. Evan

