256 cnxmrocx on 'rss xrrmsuras.
gelical., spiritual worship cannot be without the ingredient of the
main evangelical pxrincip e.
(3.) What delig t is there after it? What pleasure is there, and
what is the object of that pleasure? Is it the communion we have
had with God, or a fluency in ourselves? Is it something which
hath touched our hearts, or tickled our fancies? As the strength of
sin is known by the delightful thoughts of it after the commission;
so is the spirituality of duty, by the object of our delightful remem-
brance after the erformance. It was a sign David was spiritual in
the worship of ébd in the tabernacle, when he enjoyed it, because
he longed for the spiritual part of it, when he was exiled from it;
his desires were not only for liberty to revisit the tabernacle, but to
see the “power and glory of God in the sanctuary," as he had seen
it before (Ps. lxiii. 2): his desires for it could not have been so
ardent, if his reilection upon what had past had not been delightful ;
nor could his soul be poured out in him, for the want of such op-
ortunities, if the remembrance of the converse he had had with
god, had not been accompanied with a delightful relish (Ps. xlii. 4).
Let us examine what delight we ind in our spirits after worship.
Use III. is of comfort. And it is very comfortable to consider,
that the smallest worship with_ the heart and spirit, flowing from a
principle of grace, is more acceptable than the most pompous vene-
ration ; yea, if the oblation were as precious as the whole circuit of
heaven and earth without it. That God that values a cup of cold
water given to any as his disciple, will value a sincere service above
a costly sacrifice. God hath his eye u on them that honor his nature ;
he would not “seek such to worship}l1im,” if he did not intend to
accept such a worship from them ; when we therefore invoke him,
and praise him, whic are the prime (parts of religion, he will re-
ceive it as a. sweet savor from us, an overlook infirmities mixed
with the graces. The great matter of discomfort, and that which
makes us question the spirituality of worship, is the many starts of
our s irits, and rovings to other things. For answer to which,
1. ‘it is to be confessed that these starts are natural to us. Who
is free from them? We bear in our bosoms a nest of turbulent
thoughts, which, like busy gnats, will be buzzing about us while we
are in our most inward and spiritual converscs. Many wild beasts
lurk in a man’s heart, as in a close and covert wood, and scarce dis-
cover themselves but at our solemn worship. No duty so holy, no
worship so spiritual, that can wholly privilege us from them; they
will jog us in our most weight employments, that, as God said to
Cain, sin lies at the door, and enters in, and makes a- riot in our
souls. As it is said of wicked men, “they cannot sleep” for multi-
tude of thoughts (Eccles. v. 12) ; so it may be of many a good man,
he cannot worship for multitude of thoughts; there will be starts,
and more in our religious than natural em loyments; it is natural to
man. Some therefore think, the bells tied) to Aaron’s arments, be-
tween the pomegranates, were to warn the pleople, ang recall their
fugitive minds to the present service, when t ey heard the sound of
them, upon the least motion of the high-priest. The sacrifice of
Abraham, the father or the faithful, was not exempt from the fowls

