on srrnrrun. wonsmr. 257
pecking at it (Gen. xv. 11). Zechariah himself was drowsy in the
midst of his visions, which being more amazing, might cause a
heavenly intentness (Zcch. iv. 1) : \“ The angel that talked with me,
came again and awaked me, as a man is awaked out of sleep.” He
had been roused up before, but he was ready to drop down again;
his heart was gone, till the angel jogged him. We may com lam of
such imaginations, as Jeremiah doth of the enemies of tiie Jews
(Lam. iv. 19). Our persecutors are swiiter than eagles; they light
upon us wit as muc speed as eagles upon a carcass; they pursue
us upon the mountain of divine institutions, and they la wait for us
in th; wilderness, in our retired addresses to God.  this will be
so w ile,
(1.) There is natural corruption in us. There are in a godl man
two contrar principles, flesh and spirit, which endeavor to hinder
one'another?s acts, and are alway stirrin upon the offensive or de-
fensive part (Gal. v. 17). There is a bmgf of death, continually ex~
haling its noisome vapors: it is a body of death in our worship, as
well as in our natures; it snaps our resolutions asunder (Rom. vii.
19); it hinders us in the doing good, and contradicts our wills in the
stirring up evil. This corruption being seated in all the faculties,
and a constant domestic in them, has the greater opportunity to
trouble us, since it is by those faculties that we spiritually transact
with God ; and it stirs more in the time of religious exercises, though
it be in part mortified; as a wounded beast, t ough tired, will rage
and strive to its utmost, when the enemy is about to fetch a blow at
it All duties of worship tend to the wounding of corru tion ; and
it is no wonder to feel the striving of sin to de end itselfp and offend
us, when we have our arms in our hands to mortify it, that the blow
may be diverted which is directed against it. The apostles had as-
piring thoughts; and being persuaded of an earthly kingdom, ex-
pected a grandeur in it; and though we find some appearance of it
at other times, as when they were casting out devils, and gave an
account of it to their Master, he gives them a kind of a chec (Luke
x. 20), intimating that there was some kind of evil in their rejoicing
upon that account; et this never swelled so high, as to break out
into a quarrel who should be greatest, until they had the most solemn
ordinance, the Lord’s supper, to quell it (Luke xxii. 24). Our cor-
ruption is like lime, which discovers not its fire by any smoke or
heat, till you cast water, the enemy of nre, upon it; neither doth,
our natural corruption rage so much, as when we are using means to
quench and destroy it. -
(2.) While there is a devil, and we in his precinct. As he accuseth
unto God, so he disturbs us in ourselves; he is a bold spirit, and
loves to intrude himself when we are conversing with God : we read,
that when the angels presented themselves before God, Satan comes
among them (Job i. 6). Motions from Satan will thrust themselves
U1 with our most raised and an lical frames; he loves to take 05'
the edge of our spirits from God? he acts but after the old rate ; he
fmm the first envied God an obedience from man, and envied man
H16 felicit of communion with God ; he is unwillin God should
have the honor of worship, and that we should have the fruit of it;
vol.. x.-17

