258 cmmrocx ON nm arrnmums.
he hath himself lost it, and therefore is unwilling'we should enjoy
it; and being subtle, he knows how to make impressions upon us
,f suitable to our inbred corruptions, and assault us in the weakest
part. He knows all the avenues to get within us (as he did in the
temptation of Eve), and bein a spirit, he wants not a power to dart
them immediaiel upon our fincy; and being a spirit, and therefore
active and nimblle, he can shoot those darts faster than our weakness
can beat them off He is diligent also, and watcheth for his rey,
and seeks to devour our services as well as our souls, and snatcllf our
bestmorsels from us. We know he mixed himself with our Saviour’s
retirements in the wilderness, and endeavored to fly-blow his holy
converse with his Father in the preparation to his mediatory work.
Satan is God’s ape, and imitates the Spirit in the ofnce of a remem-
brancer; as the Spirit brings good thoughts and divine vpromises to
mind, to quicken our worship, so the devil brings e things to
mind, and endeavors to fasten them in our souls to disturb us; and
though all the foolish starts we have in worship are not purely his
issue, yet being of kin to him, he claps his hands, and sets them on
like so many mastiiih, to tear the service in pieces. And both those
distractions, which arise from our own corruption and from Satan,
are most rife in worshi , when we are under some pressing afiliction.
This seems to be Davi§’s case, Ps. lxxxvi. when in ver. 11 he pravs
God to unite his heart to fear and worship his name; he seems to be
under some afliiction, or fear of his enemies: “O free me from those
distractions of spirit, and those pamions which arise in mdy soul, upon
considering the designs of my enemies against me, an Jpress upon
me in my addresses to thee, and attendances on thee.” ob also in
his atlliction complains (Job xvii. 11) that “ his purposes were broken
off ;" he could not make an even thread of thoughts and resolutions;
they were frequently snapt asunder, like rotten yarn when one is
winding it up. Good men and spiritual worshippers have -lain under
this trouble. Though they are a sign of weakness of grace, or some
obstructions in the acting of strong grace, yet they are not alway
evidences of a want of grace; what ariset Bom our own corrup-
tion, is to be matter of humiliation and resistance; what ariseth from
Satan, should edge our minds to a noble conqpuest of them. If the
alpostle did comfort himself with his disap roving of what rose from
t e natural spring of sin within him, with his consent to the law, and
dissent from his lust; and char es it not upon himself, but upon the
sin that dwelt in him, with wiich he had broken off the former
league, and was resolved never to enter into amit with it; by the
same reason we may comfort ourselves, if such thoughts are unde~
lighted in, and alienate not our hearts from the worship of God by
.all their busy intrusions to interrupt us.
4 2. These distractions (not allowed) may be occasions, by an holy
I improvement, to make our hearts more spiritual after worship, though
, they disturb us in it, by answering those ends for which we may sup-
i pose Go%permits them to invade us. And that is,
` First, hen they are occasions to humble us,
(1.) For our carriage in the particular worship. There is nothing
so dangerous as spiritual pride; it deprived devils and men of the

