ON srmrrun. WORSHIP. 259
presence of God, and will hinder us of the influence of God. If we
ad had raised and uninterrupted motions in worship, we should be
apt to be lifted up; and the evil stands read to tempt us to self?
confidence. You know how it was with Paul 2 Cor. xii. 1-7); his
buffetings were occasions to render him more spiritual than his rap-
tures, because more humble. God suffers those wanderings, starts,
and distractions, to prevent our spiritual (pride; which is as a worm
at the root of spiritual worship, and min us of the dusty frame of'
our spirits, how easily they are blown away; as he sends sickness to
put us in mind of t e shortness of our breath, and the easiness to
ose it. God would make us ashamed of ourselves in his presence;
that we mav own, that what is good in any duty, is merely from his
grace and Spirit, and not from ourselves; that with Paul we may
ery out, “By grace we are what we are,” and bg grace we do what
we do; we may be hereby made sensible, that od can alway ind
something in our exactest worship, as a ground of denying us the
successful fruit of it. If we cannot stand u n our duties for salva-
tion, what can we bottom upon in ourselveslio If therefore they are
occasions to make us out of love with any righteousness of our own,
to make us break our hearts tbr them, because we cannot keep them
out; if we mourn for them as our sins, and count them 'our great
atilictions, we have attained that brokenness which is a choice ingre-
dient in a spiritual sacrifice. Though we have been disturbed by
them, yet we are not robbed of the success; we ma behold an
answer of our worship in our humiliation, in spite of allyof them.
(2.) For the baseness of our nature. These unsteady motions help
us to discern that hea of vermin that breeds in our nature. Would
any man think he had) such an averseness to his Creator and Bene-
factor; such an unsuitableness to him; such an estrangedness from
him, were it not for his inspection into his distracted frame? God
sutfeis this to hang over us as a rod of correction, to discover and fetch
out the folly of our hearts. Could we imagine our natures so highly
contrary to that God who is so infinitely amiable, so desirable an
object; or that there should be so much folly and madness in the
heart, as to draw back from God in those services which God hath
appointed as ipes through which to communicate his grace, to con-
vey himself, his love an oodness to the creature? If, therefore,
we have a deep sense of; and strong reflections upon our base nature,
and bewail that mass of aveiseness which lies there, and that fulness
of irreverence towards the God of our mercies, the object of our
-Worship, it is a. blessed improvement of our wanderings and diver-
sions. Certainly, if any Israelite had- brought a lame and rotten
lamb to be sacrificed to God, and afterward had bewailed it, and laid
open his heart to God in a sensible and humble confession of it, that
repentance had been a better sacrifice, and more acceptable in the
sight of God, than if he had brought a sound and a living offering.
Secondly, When they are occasions to make us prize duties of
worship. When we argue, as rationally we may, tiat they are of
singular use, since our corrupt hearts and a malicious devil doth
chieflv endeavor to hinder us from them, and that we ‘rind we have
not those gadding thoughts when we are upon worldly business, or

