260 CHABNOCK ON 'mn Arrnmvrss.
upon any sinful design which may dishonor God and wound our
souls. his is a sign sin and Satan dislike worship, for he is too
subtle a spirit to oppose that which would further his kingdom. As
it is an argument the Scripture is the word of God, because the
wickedness of the world dot so much op .it, so it is a ound to
believe the proiitableness and exeellency of worship, b6(!3»\l88§f8.l1 and
our own unruly hearts do so much interrupt us in it: if, therefore,
we make this use of our cross-steps in worship, to have a greater
value for such duties, more affections to them, and desires to be ire-
uent in them, our hearts are glowing spiritual under the weights
iliat would de ress them to carnality.
Thirdly, When we take a rise from hence, to have heavenly admi-
rations of the graciousness of God, that he should pity and pardon
so many 'slight addresses to him, and give any gracious ret1u'ns to
us. Thoug men have foolish rangings ever day, and in every
duty, yet free is so tender as not to punisli them (Gen. viii. 21):
“And the Lord smelt a sweet savor; and the Lord said in his heart,
I will not curse the ground for man’s sake, for the imagination of
man’s heart is evil from his youth.” It is observable, that this was
just after a sacriice which Noah oifered to God (ver. 20): but prob-
ably not without iniirmities common to human natiue, which may
be grounded upon the reason God gives, that though he had destroyed
the earth before, because of the “evil of ma.n’s imaginations” given.
vi. 3; he still found evil imaginations; he doth not say in the eart
of am, or others of Noah’s family, but in man’s heart, including
Noah also, who had both the jud ents of God upon the former
world, and the mercy of God init; own preservation, before his
eyes; yet God saw evil imaginations rooted .in the natiue of man,
and though. it were so, yet he would be merciful. Ii; therefore, we
can, after inding our hearts so vagrant in worship, have real frames
of thankfulness that God hath spared us, and be heightened in our
admirations at God’s giving us any fruit of such a distracted wo1°ship,
we take advantage from them to be raised into an evangelical frame,
which consists in the humble acknowledgments of the grace of God.
When David takes a review of those tumultuous passions which had
ruiiled his mind, and possessed him with unbelievmg notions of God
in the persons of his prophets (Ps. cxvi. 11), how high doth his soul
mount in astonishment and thankfulness to God for his mercy!
(ver. 12.) Notwithstanding his distrust, God did vgraeiously perform
his promise, and answer his desire: then it is, “ hat shal render
to t e Lord ?” His heart was more affected for it, because it had
been so passionate in former distrusts. It is indeed a ground of
wondering at the patience of the Spirit of God, that he should guide
our hearts when they are so apt to start out, as it is the tience of
a master to guide the hand of his scholar, while he mixesllgs Waiting
with many blots. It is not one or two iniirmities the Spirit helps us
in, and helps over, but many (Rom.   23. It is a sign of a spirit-
ual heart, when he can take a rise to bless od for the renewing and
blowing up his affections, in the midst of so many incursions from
Satan to the contrary, and the readiness of the heart too much to
comply with them.

