ON srtnrrmu. wonsmr. _ 261
Fourthly};Vhen we take occasion from thence to prize the media-
tion of C ` t. The more distractions 'og us, the more need we
should see of going out to a Saviour by faith. One part of our
Saviour’s oiiice is to stand between us and the infirmities of our wor-
ship. As he is an advocate, he resents om' services, and pleads for
them and us (1 John ii. 1), for thie sins of our duties, as well as for
our other sins. Jesus Christ is an High-priest, appointed by God to
take away the “iniquities of our holy things,” which was typiiied by
Aaron’s plate upon his mitre (Exod. xxviii. 36, 38). Were there no
imperfections, were there no cree ing up of those frogs into our
minds, we should think our worsliip might merit acceptance with
God upon its own account; but if we behold our own weakness,
that not a tear, a groan, a sigh, is so pure, but must have Christ to
make it entertainable; that there is no worship without those blem-
ishes; and upon this, throw all our services into the arms of Christ
for acceptance, and solicit him to put his merits in the front,.to make
our cip ers a pear valuable; it is a spiritual act, the des' of God
in the gospel liieing to advance the honor and mediation olgnhis Son.
That is a s iritual and evangelical act which answers the evan elical
design. ‘lgme design of Satan, and our own corruption is deéaated,
when those interruptions make us run swifter, and take faster hold
on the High-priest who is to present our worship to God, and ou1'
own souls receive comfort thereb _ Christ had temptations offered
to him by the devil in his wilderness retirement, that, from an
experimental knowledge, he might be able more “compassionately
to succor us” (Heb.   18); we have such assaults in our retired wor~
ship smpecially, that we may _be able more highly to value him and
his me iation.
3. Let us not, therefore, be discouraged by those interruptions and
starts of our hearts.
(Lzgf we find in ourselves a strong resistance of them. The flesh
will lusting; that cannot be hindered; yet if we do not fulfil the
lusts of it, rise up at its command, and go about its work, we may
he said to walk in the Spirit (Gal. v. 16, 172: we “walk in the
Spirit,” if we “fulfil not the lusts of the fiesh,’ though there be a
lusting of the flesh against the Spirit; so We worship in the Spirit,
though there be carnal thoughts arising -if we do not fulfil them;
thouvh the stirring of them discovers some contrariety in us to God,
yet the resistance manifests that there is a rinci le of _contrariety in
us to them; that as there is something of flesh that lusts against the
spirit, so there is something of s irit in worship which lusts @inst
_ e flesh: we must take heed ot? omitting worship, because of such
1Hl‘0$L(lS, and lying down in the mire of a total neglect. If our spirits
are made more lively and vigorous against them; if those cold vapors
which have risen from our hearts make us, like a spring in the midst
of the cold earth, more warm, there is, in this case, more reason for
us to bless God, than to be discouraged. God looks u n it as the
disease, not the wilfulness of our nature; as the weagiiess of the
flesh, not the willingness of the s irit. Ifwe would shut the door
upon them, it seems they are unwel)come com any; men do not use
to lock their doors upon those they love; if they break in and dis-

