262 cimnrtocx ON THE ATIRIBUTES.
turb us with their impertinences, we need not be discomforted, unlem
we give them a share in our affections, and turn our back upon God
to entertain them; if their presence makes us sad, their flight would
make us joyful.
(2.) If we iind ourselves excited to ~a stricter watch over our
hearts against them; as travellers will be careful when they come to
places where they have been robbed before, that they be not so easi-
y sugprised again. We should not only lament when we have had
such oolish imaginations in worship breaking in upon us, but also
bless God that we have had no more, since we have hearts so fruit-
ful of weeds. We should give God the glory when we find our
hearts preserved from these intruders, and not boast of ourselves,
but return him our praise for the watch and guard he kept over us,
to preserve us from such thieves. Let us not be discomforted;
for as the greatness of our sins, upon our turning to God, is no hin-
drance to our justification, because it doth not depend upon our con-
version as the meritorious cause, but upon the infinite value of our
Saviour’s satisfaction, which reaches the greatest sins as well as the
least; so the multitude of our bewailed distractions in worship are
not a hindrance to our acceptation, because of the uncontrollable
power of Christ’s intercession.
Use IV. is for exhortation. Since s iritual worshi is due to God,
and the Father seeks such to worship liim, how muclli) should we en-
deavor to satisfy the desire and order of God, and act conformable
to the law of our creation and the love of redemption! Our
end must be the same in worship which was God’s end in crea-
tion and redemption; to glorify his name, set forth his perfections,
and be rendered fit, as creatures and redeemed ones, to artake of
that grace which is the fruit of worship. An evangelicail dispensa-
tion requires a spiritual homage; to neglect, thereibre, either the
matter or manner of gospel duties, is to put a slight upon gos 1
privileges. The manner of duty is ever of more value than Sie
matt/er; the scarlet dye is more precious than the cloth tinctured
with it. God respects more the disposition of the sacrificer than the
multitude of the sacriiicesnl The solemn feasts appointed by God
were but dung as managed by the Jews (Mal. ii. 3). The heart
is often welcome without the body, but the body never grateful
without the heart. The inward acts of the spirit require nothing
from without to constitute them good in themselves; but the out-
ward acts of devotion re uire inward acts to render them savory to
God. As the goodness oil outward acts consists not in the acts them-
selves, so the acceptableness of them results not from the acts them-
selves, but from the inward frame animating and quickenin those
acts, as blood and spirits running through the veins of a §luty to
make it a living service in the sight of God. Imperfections in wor-
ship hinder not God’s acceptation of it, if the heart, spirited by
grace, be there to make it a sweet savor. 'l`he stench of burning
esh and lat in the legal sacriiices might render them noisome to the
outward senses;'but God smelt a sweet savor in them, as they
q Mdllov fb dazpéwov -rrpck rd rain: ¢v6v‘rm~ Mo; 5 'rain' Uuapévov frlidaf. Porphyr. do
Lhltinentin.

