os SPIRITUAL wonsmr. 263
respected Christ. When the heart and spirit are offered up to God,
it may be a savory duty, though attended with unsavory imperfec-
tions; but a thousand sacrifices without a stamp of faith, a thousand
spiritual duties with an habitual carnality, are no better than stench
with God. The heart must be purged, as well as. the temple was by
our Saviour, of the thieves that would rob God of his due worship.
Antiquity had some temples wherein it was a crime to brin any
gold; therefore those that came to worship laid their gold aside be-
fore the went into the temple. We should lay aside our worldly
and trading thoughts before we address to worship (Isa. xxvi. 9):
“With my s irit within me will I seek thee early.” Let not our
minds be gad)ding abroad, and exiled from God and themselves. It
will be thus when the “desire of our soul is to his name, and the re-
membrance of him” (ver. 8). When he hath given so great and ad-
mirable a gift as that of his Son, in whom are all things necessary
to salvation, righteousness, peace, and pardon of sin, we should
manage the remembrance of his name in worship with the closest
unite ness of heart, and the most spiritual affections. The motion
of the spirit is the first act in religion ; to this we are obliged in
every act. The devil requires the s irit of his votaries; should-God
have a less dedication than the devi.l)?
Motives to back this exhortation.
I. Not to give God our spirit is a great sin. It is a mockery of
Gofl, not worship, contempt, not adoration, whatever our outward fer-
vency or protestations may be.' Every alienation of our hearts from
him is a. real scorn put upon him. The acts of the soul are real, and
more the acts of the man than the acts of the body; because they
are the acts of the choicest part of man, and of that which is the Hrst
spring of all bodily motions; it is the 1610; é~0w0»w;, the internal speech
wheieb we must speak with God. To give him, therefore, only an
external form of worship without the life of it, is a taking his name
in vain. We mock him, when we mind not what we are speaking
to him, or what he is speakingto us; when the motions of our hearts
are contrary to the motions of our tongues; when we do anything
before him slovenly, impudently, or rashly. As in a lutinist it is
absurd to sing one time and play another; so it is a foul thingto tell
God one thing with our li s, and think another with our hearts. It
is a sin like that the apostlie chargeth the heathens with (Rom. i. 283:
“They like not to retain God in their knowledge.” Their stomac s
are-sick while they are upon any duty, and never leave working till
they have thrown up all the spiritual part of worship, and rid them-
selves of the thoughts of God, which are as unwelcome and trouble-
some guests to them. When men behave themselves in the sight of
God, as if God were not God, they do not only defame him, but deny
him, and violate the unchangeable perfections of the Divine nature.
1. It is against the majesty of God, when We have not awful
thoughts of that great Majesty to whom we address; when our souls
cleave not to him when we tition him in prayer, or when he gives
out his orders to us in his Vggrd. It is a contempt of the majestv
of a prince, it, whilst he is speaking to us, we listen not to him with
' “ Non valet protestatio contra Escturn," is a rule in t.he‘civi1 law.

