264 cnamrocx ON THE A'1'rn1BU'r1a:s.
reverence and attention, but turn our backs on him, to play with
one of his hounds, or talk with a be gar; or while we speak to
him, to rakeiin a duughill. Solomon agviseth us to "kee our foot
when we o to the house of God” (Eccles. v. 1). Sur affec-
tions shoulf? be steady, and not slip away again; why? (ver. 2()J;e-
cause “God is in heaven,” &c. He is aGod of majesty; earthly, ` y
frames are unsuitable to the God of heaven; low spirits are un-
suitable to the Most High. We would not bring our mean servants
or dirty dogs into a prince’s presence chamber; yet we bring not
only our worldly, but our profane affections into God’s reseuee.
We 've in this case those services to God which our governor
woulgx think unworthy of him (Mal. i. 8). The more excellent and
glorious God is, the greater contempt of him it is to suEer such fool-
ish affections to be competitors with him for our hearts. It is a scorn
put upon him to converse with a creature, while we are dealing with
im; but a greater to converse in our thoughts and fancies with some
sordid lust, which is most hateful to him ; and the more aggravation
it attracts, in that we are to apprehend him the most glorious object
sitting upon his throne in time of worship, and ourselves standing as
vile 'creatures before him, supplicating for our lives, and the convey-
ance of grace and mercy to our souls; as if a grand mutineer, in-
stead of humbly begging the pardon of his offended prince, should
present his petition not only scribbled and blotted, but besmeared
with some loathsome excrement. It is unbecoming both the majesty
of God, and the worship itself; to present him with a picture instead
of a substance, and bring a world of nasty affections in our hearts,
and ridiculous toys in our heads before him, and worship with india
pgged and p1eedlesshs<;_uls. Eie is a great King (Mal. i. 14): therefore
a ress to im wit ear an reverence.
2. It is against the life of God. Is a dead worship proportioned
to a living God? The separation of heavenly aifections from our
souls before God, makes them as much a carcass in his sight, as the
divorce of the soul makes the body a carcass. When the affections
are separated, worship is no longer worship, but a. dead oifering, a
lifeless bulk ; for the essence and s irit of worship is departed.
Though the soul be present with the body in a. way of information,
yet it is not present in a way of affection, and this is the worst; for
it is not the separation of the soul from informing that doth separate
a man from Gnd, but the removal of our affections from him. If a
man pretend an application to God, and sleep and snore all the time,
without question such a one did not worship. In a careless worship
the heart is morally dead while the eyes are open: the heart of the
s use (Cant. v. 2) waked while her eyes slept; and our hearts, on
the) contrary, sleep while our eyes wake. Our blemed Saviour hath
died ha purge our consciences from dead works and frames, that we
may serve the living God (Heb. ix. 14); to serve God as a God of
life. David’s soul cried and fainted for God under this considera-
tion (Ps. xlii. 2); but to present our bodies without our spirits, is
such a usage of God, that implies he is a dead image, not worthy of
any but a dead and heartless service, like one of those idols the
Psalmist speaks of (Ps. cxv 5), that have “ eyes, and see not; ears,

