on sriarrtm. wonsrnr. 265
ana hear not;” no life in it. Though it be not an objective idolatry,
because the worship is directed to the true God; yet I may call it a
subjective idolatry in d of the frame, tit only to .be resented tc
some senseless stock. 3a intimate God to be no better ilian an idol,
and to have no more knowledge of us and insight into us, than an
idol can have. If we did believe him to be the living God, we
dmst not come before him with services so unsuitable to him, and
neproaches of him. ,
3. It is against the infiniteness of God. We should worshi God
with those boundless affections which bear upon them a shadidw or
image of his infiniteness; such are the desires of the soul which know
no limits, but start out beyond whatsoever enjoyment the heart of
man po es. No creeping creature was to be offered to God in
sacrifice, but such as had egs to run, or wings to Hy. For us to come
before God with a light creeping frame, is to worship him with the
lowest ‘finite affections, as though anythingl, though never so mean or
torn, mi ht satisfy an infinite Being; as t ough a poor shallow crea-
ture could give enough to God wit out giving him the heart, when,
indeed, we cannot give him a worship proportionable to his infinite-
ness, did our hearts swell as large as heaven in our desires for him
in every act of our duties. '
4. It is against the spirituality of God. God being a S irit, calls
for a worship in spirit; to withhold this from him imfplies him to be
some gross corporeal matter. As a Spirit, he looks or the heart; a
wmtling heart in pra er, a trembling heart in the Word   lxvi.
2). To bring nothing but the body wrlien we come to a spiritual God
to beg spiritual benefits, to wait for spiritual communications, which
can only be dispensed to us in a spuitual manner, is unsuitable to
the spiritual nature of God. A mere carnal service implicitly denies
his spirituality, which requires of us higher engagements than mere
eorporeal ones. Woishi should be rational, not an imaginative ser-
vice, wherein is   the activity of our noblest faculties; and
our fancy ought to have no share in it, but in subserviency to the
more spiritual part of our soul.
5. lt is against the supremacy of God. As God is one and the only
Sovereign; so our hearts should be one, cleaving wholly to him, and
undivided from him. In pretending to deal with him, we acknowl-
vdge his deity and sovereignty; but in withholdin our choicest
thculties and affections from him, and the starting 0? our minds to
vain objects, we intimate their equality with God, and their right as
well as his to our hearts and affections. It is as if a rincess should
commit adultery with some base scullion while she is liefore her hus-
band, which would be a plain denial of his sole right to her. It inti-
mates that other things are superior to God; they are true sovereigns
that engrow our hearts. If a man were addressing himself to a prince
and should in an instant turn his back upon him, upon a beck or nod
Hum some inconsiderable person; is it not an evidence that that r-
UD that invited him away hath a greater sovereignty over him thean
*hilt prince to whom he was applying himself ? And do we not dis-
wd God‘s absolute dominion over us, when, at the least beck of a
Corrupt inclination, we can dispose of our hearts to it, and alienate

