266 cmnnocx ON THE nrnmurns.
them from God? as they, in Ezek. xxxiii. 32, len the service of God
for the service of their covetousness, which evidenced that they owned
'the authorit of sin more than the authority of God. This is not to serve
God as our ford and absolute Master, but to make God serve our tum,
and submit his sovereignty to the su remacy of some unworthy a&`ec-
tion. The creature is preferred beildre the Creator, when the heart
runs most upon it in time of religious worshiip, and our own carnal
interest swa lows up the affections that are ue to God. It is “ an
idol set up in the heart” (Ezek. xiv. 4) in his solemn presence, and
attracts that devotion to itself which we only owe to our Sovereign
Lord; and the more base and contemptible t at is to which the irit
is devoted, the more contempt there is of God’s dominion. J ligase
kiss, with a “Hail Master l” was no act of worship, or an owning his
Master’s authority, but a designing the satisfaction of his covetous~
ness in the betraying of him.
6. It is against the wisdom of God. God, as a God of order, has
put earthly things in subordination to heavenly; and we, by this un-
worthy carriage, invert this order, and put heavenly things in subor-
dination to earthly; in placing mean and low things in our hearts,
and bringing them so ep aced into God’s presence, which his wisdom
at the creation put un er our feet. A service without spiritual affec-
tions is a “sacrifice of fools” §Eccles. v. 1), which have lost their
brains and understandings: a oolish spirit is very unsuitable to an
infinitely wise God. Well may God say of such a one, as ‘Achish of
David, who seemed mad, “ Why have you brought this fellow to plav
the madman in my presence? Shall this fellow come into my house ?'”
(1 Sam. xxi. 15.)
7. It is against the ornnisciency of God. To carry it fair without,
and impertinently within, is as thou h God had not an all-seeing e e
that could pierce into the heart, and understand every motion of the
inward faculties; as though God were easily cheated with an outward
fawning service, like an apothecary’s box with a gilded title, that
may be full of cobwebs within. What is such a carriage, but a de-
sign to deceive God, when, with Herod, we retend to worshi
Christ, and intend to murder all the motions of Shrist in o1u~ souls;
A heedless spirit, an estrangement of our souls, a giving the reins to
them to run out from the :esence of God to see every reed shaken
with the wind, is to deny liim to be the Searcher of hearts, and the
Discerner of secret thoughts; as though he could not look through
us to the darkness and remoteness of om' minds, but were an ignorant
God, who might be put off with the worst as well as the best in our
iiock. If we did really believe there were a God of infinite knowl-
edge, who saw our frames and whether we came dressed with wed-
ding garments suitable to the duties we are about to perform, should
wc be so garish, and put him off with such trivial stuff, without any
reverence of his Majesty?
8. It is against the holiness of God. To alienate our spirits is to
ofend him while we pretend to worship him; though we may be
mighty ofiicious in the external part, yet our base an carnal affec-
tions make all our worship but as a heap of dung; and who would
not look upon it as an aiiront to lay clung before a prince’s throne?

