on srutrrnn. wonsmr. 26?
(Prov. xxi. 27), “The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination ;"
how much more when he brings it with a wicked mind? A putrefied
carcass under the law had not been so eat an aifront to the holiness
of God, as a frothy unmclted heart, and-ra wanton fancy, in a. time of
worship. God is so holy, that if we could offer the worshi of angels,
and the quintesseuce o our souls in his service, it would ‘be beneath
his infinite purity; how unworthy, then, are they of him, when they
are presented not only without the sense of our uncleanness, but
sullied with the fumes and exhalations of our corrupt affections,
which are as so many; plague-spots upon our duties, contrary to the
unspotted urit of t e Divine nature? Is not this an unworthy con-
ceit of God: and' injurious to his infinite holiness?
9. It is against the love and kindness of God. It is a condescension
in God to admit'a piece of earth to offer up a duty to him, when he
hath myriads of angels to attend him in his court, and celebrate his
praise. To admit man to be an attendant on him, and a artner with
angels, is a high favor. It is not a single mercy, but a liieap of mer-
cies, te be admitted into the presence of God (Ps. v. 721: “I will come
into thy house in the multitude of thy mercies.” W en the blessed
God is so kind as to give us access to his majesty, do we not under-
value his kindness when we deal uncivilly with him, and deny him
the choicest part of ourselves? It is a contempt of his sovereignty,
as our spirits are due to him by nature; a contempt of his goodness,
as our spirits are due to him by gratitude. How abusive a carriage
is it to make use of his mercy to encourage our impudence, that
should excite our fear and reverence! How unworthy would it be
for an indigent debtor to brin to his indulgent creditor an empty
purse instead of payment! Wien God holds out his golden sceptre
to encourage our approaches to him, stands ready to give us the par-
don of sin and full elicity, the best things he hath, is it a Ht requital
of his kindness to give him a formal outside only,.a shadow of reli-
gion; to have the heart overswayed with other thou hts and affec-
tions, as if all his proffers were so contemptible as to deserve only a
align at our hands? It is a contempt of the love and kindness of
10. It is against the suiiiciency and fulness of God. When we
give God our bodies, and the creature our spirits, it intimates a con-
ceit that there is more content to be had in the creature than in God
blessed forever; that the waters in the cistern are sweeter than those
in the fonmtain. ls not this a practical giving God the lie, and de-
nying those promises wherein he hath declare the satisfaction he can
give to the spirit, as he is the God of the spirits of all flesh? If we
id imagine the excellency and loveliness of God were worth to be
the ultimate object of our affections, the heart would attendy more
closely upon him, and be terminated in him ; did we believe God to
be all-sufficient, full of grace and goodness, a tender Father, not wil-
ling to forsake his own, willing, as well as able, to supply their
wants, the heart would not so lamely attend u on him, and would
1101; upon every impertinency be diverted from liim. There is much
of a wrong notion of God, and a predominancy of the world above
him in the heart, when we can more savorly relish the thoughts of

