268 cznumocx ON THE A'I'I‘RIBU'I’ES.
low inferior things than heavenhy, and let our spirits upon every
triiiing occasion be fugitive from im; it is a testimony that we make
not God our chiefest good. If apprehensions of his excellency did
possess our souls, they would be fastened on him, glued to him; we
should not listen to that rabble of foolish thou hts that steal our
hearts so often ‘from him. Were our breathings lager God as strong
as the pantings of the hart after the water-brooks, we should be like
that creature, not diverted in our course by every uddle. Were
God the predominant satisfaetor object in our eye, he would carry
our whole soul along with him. When our spirits readily retreat from
God in worship upon every giddy motion, it is a kind of repentance
that ever we did come near him, and implies that there is a fuller
satisfaction, and more attractive excellency in that which doth so
easil divert us, than in that God to whose worship we did pretend
to amifdress ourselves. It is as if, when we are petitioning a prince,
we should immediately turn about, and make re%uest to one of his
ard, asthough so mean a person were more a le to give us the
gon we want than the sovereign is.
II. Consideration by way of motive. To have our spirits of from
God in worship is a bad si : it was not so in innocence. The heart
of Adam could cleave to gnod: the law of God was engraven upon
him, he could apply himself to the fulfilling of it without any twink-
ling. There was no folly and vanity in his mind, no independency
in his thoughts, no duty was his burden; for there was in him a
roneness to, and a delight in, all the duties of worship. It is the
fall hath distempered us; and the more unwieldiness there is in our
s irits, the more carnal our affections are in worship, the more evi-
dlence there is of the strength of that revolted state.
1. It argues much corruption in the heart. As by the eructations
of the stomach, we may judge of the windiness an foulness of it;
so, by the inordinate motions of our minds and hearts, we may judge
of the weakness of its complexion. Astrength of sin is evidenced
by the eruptions and ebu litions of it in worship, when they are
more sudden, numerous, and vigorous than the motions of grace.
When the heart is apt, like tinder, to catch fire from Satan, it is a
sign of much combustible matter suitable to his temptation. Were
not corruption strong, the soul could not turn so easily from God
when it is in his presence, and hath an advantageous op rtunity to
create a fear and awe of God in it. Such base fruit coulgonot sprout
up so suddenly, were there not much sap and juice in the root of
sin. What communion with a living root can be evidenced without
exercises of an inward life? That spirit, which is a well of living
waters in a gracious heart, will be especially springing up when it is
before God.
2. It shows much affection t.o earthly things, and little to heav»
enly. There must needs be an inordinate a.ii`ection to earthly things,
when, upon every slight solicitation, we can part with God, and turn
the back upon a service glorious for him and advantageous for our-
selves, to wed our hearts to some idle fancy that signifies nothing.
How can we be said to entertain God in our affections, when we
give him not the precedency in our understandings. but let everv

