ON srrarrunr. wonsmr. 269
triie jostfe the sense of God out of our minds? Were our hearts
fully determined to spiritual things, such Vanities could not seat
themselves in our understandings, and divide our spirits from God.
Were our hearts balanced with a love to God, the world could never
steal our hearts so much from his worship, but his worship would
draw our hearts to it. It shows a. base neutrality in the greatest con-
cernments; a halting between God and Baal; a contrariety between
affection and conscience, when natural conscience presses a man to
duties of worship, and his other affections pull him back, draw
him to camal objects, and make him slight that whereby he may
honor God. God argues the profaneness of the Jews’ hearts from
the wickedness they brought into his house, and acted there (Jer.
xxiii. 11): “ Yea, in m house,” that is, my worship, “I found their
wickedness,” saith the Iliord. Carnality in worshi is a kind of an
idolatrous frame; when the heart is renewed, idoh are cast to the
moles and the bats   ii. 20).
3. It shows muc hy ocrisy to have our spirits off from God.
The mouth speaks, and the carriage pretends what the heart doth
not think; there is a dissent of the heart from the pretence of the
body. Instability is a sure sign of hypocrisy. Double thoughts
argue a double heart. The wic ed are com ared to chaff (Ps. i. 4),
for the uncertain and various motions of tlieir minds, b the least
wind of fanc _ The least motion of a carnal object dliverts the
sépirit from Gyod, as the scent of carrion doth the raven from the
ight it was set upon. The lpeo le of God are called God’s spouse,
and God calls himself their usliiand; whereb is noted the most in-
timate union of the soul with God; and that there ought to be the
highest love and affection to him, and faithfulness in his worship;
but when the heart doth start from him in worship, it is a. sign of
the unsteadfastness of it with God, and a. disrelish of any communion
with him; it is, as God complains of the Israelites, a oiug a whor-
ing after our own imaginations. As grace respects God as the object
of worship, so it looks most upon God in approaching to him.
Where there is a likeness and love, there is a desire of converse and
intimacy; if there be no spiritual entwining about God in our wor-
ship, it isa sign there is no likeness to him, no true sense of him.,
110 renewed image of God in us; every living image will move
Strongly to join itself with its original co}py, and be glad, with
Jacob, tosit steadily in those chariots that s all convey him to his
beloved Jose h.
HI. Considier the danger of a carnal worship.
1. We lose the comfort of worship. The soul is a ireat gainer
when it offers a. spiritual worship, an as great a loser w en it isun-
faithful with God. Treachery and perfidiousness hinder commerce
Bmong men; so doth hypocrisy in its own nature communion with
God. God never romised anything to the carcass, but to the spirit
of worship. Godhath no obligation upon him, by any word of his,
i0 reward us with himself, when we perform it not to imself; when
WB give an outside worshi , we have only the outside of an ordi-
Dance; we can expect no Eernel, when we give God only the shell:
llethat only licks the outside of the glass, can never be refreshed

