270 CHARNOCK oN THE A'1'ra1BU'rEs.
with the rich cordial enclosed within. A cold and laz formality will
make God to withdraw the light of his countenance, and not shine with
any delightful communications upon our souls; but if we come be-
fore him with a liveliness of affections, and steadiness of heart, he
will draw the veil, and cause his glory to display itself before us.
An humble raying Christian, and a warm, affectionate Christian in
worship, wili)soon find a God who is delighted with such frames,
and cannot long withhold himself from the soul. When our hearts
are inflamed with love to him in worship, it is a preparation to
some act of love _on his part, whereby he intends further to gratify
us. \Vhen John was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, that is, in
spiritual employment, and meditation, and other duties, he had that
eat revelation of what should happen to the church in all ages
Rev. i. 10); his being in the Spirit, intiniatcs his ordinary course on
that day, and not any extraordinary act in him, though it was followed
with an extraordinary discovery of God to him ; when he was thus
engaged, “ he heard a voice behind him.” God doth not require of
us spirituality in worship to advantage himself, but that we might
be prepared to be advantaged by him. If we have a clear and well-
disposed eye, it is not a benefit to the sun, but Hts us to receive
benefits from his beams. Worship is an act that pcrfects our o\m
souls; the are then most widened by spiritual frames, to receive the in-
fluence ofy divine blessings, as an e e most opened receives the fruit of
the sun’s light better than the eye that is shut. The communications of
God are more or less, according as our s iiritual frames are more or
less in our worship; God will not give his blessings to unsuitable
hearts. “That a nasty vessel is a carnal heart for a spiritual commu-
nication! The chief end of every duty enjoined by God, is to have
communion with him; and therefore it is called a drawing near to
God; it is impossible, therefore, that the outward part of any duty
can answer the end of God in his institution. It is not a bodil
appearance or gesture whereby men can have communion with Go
but by the impressions of the eart, and reflections of the heart upon
God; without this, all the rich streams of ace will run beside
us, and the growth of the soul be hindered aiildj-impaired. A “dili-
gent hand makes rich,” saith the wise man; a diligent heart in spirit-
ual worship, brings in rich incomes to the humble and spiritual
SOL11.
2. It renders the worshi not only unacceptable, but abominable
to God. It makes our golil to become dross, it soils our duties, and
bespots our souls. A carnal and unsteady frame shows an indiffer-
ency of s irit at best; and lukewarmness is as ungrateful to God, as
heavy and) nauseous meat is to the stomach; he “s ews them out of
his mouth” (Rev. iii. 16). As our gracious God d)oth overlook in-
iirmities where intentions are good, and endeavors serious and strong;
so he loathes the services where the frames are stark naught (Ps. lxvi.
118): “ If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear my
pgaver.” Lukewarm and indifferent services stink in the nostrils of
od. The heart seems to loathe' God when it starts from him upon
every occasion, when it is unwilling to employ itself about, and
stick close to him and can God be pleased with such a frame? The

