ON srmrrun. wonenir. 271
more of the heart and spirit is in any service, the more real good-
ness there is in it, and the more savory it is to God; the less of
the heart and spirit, the less of goodness, and the more nauseous to
God, who loves righteousness and “truth in the inward parts” (Ps.
li. 6). And therefore infinite oodness and holiness cannot but hate
worship present/ed to him with deceitful, carnal, and flitting affections;
they must be more nauseous to God, than a. putrefied carcass can be
to man; they are the profanings of that which should be the habita-
tion of the .. irit; they make the spirit, the seat of duty, a Hlthy
dunghill; ang are as loathsome to God, as money-changers in the
temple were to om' Saviour. \Ve see the evil of carnal frames, and
the necessity and benefit of spiritual frames: for further help in this
last, let us practise these following directions:
1. Keep up rslpiritual frames out of worship. To avoid low affec-
tions, we must 'eep our hearts as much as we can in a settled eleva-
tion. If we admit unworthy dispositions at one time, we shall not
easily be rid of them in another;° as he that would not be bitten
with @1113 in the night, must keep his windows shut in the day:
when they are once entered, it is not easy to expel them; in which
respect, one adviscih to be such out of worship as we would he in
worship. If we mix spiritual affections with our worldly employ-
ments, worldly affections will not mingle themselves so easily with
our heavenly engagements. If our hearts be sriritual in our out-
ward calling, they will scarce be carnal in our rciigious service. If
“ we walk in the S irit, we shall not fulfil the lusts of the flesh” (Gal.
v. 16). A spiritualwalk in the day will hinder carnal lustings in
worship. T e fire was to be kept alive upon the altar, when sacri-
fices were not offered, from morning till night, from night till morn-
ing, as well as in the ve time of sacrifice. A spiritual life and
vigor out of worship would render it at its season sweet and easy,
and preserve a. spontaneity and preparedness to it, and make it both
natural and pleasant to us. Anything) that doth unhinge and dis-
compose our spirits, is inconsistent wit religious services, which are
to be performed with the greatest sedateness and ravity. All irreg-
ular passions disturb the serenity of the spirit, and 0 en the door for
Satan: saith the apostle (Eph. iv. 26, 27), “Let not tlhe sun go down
upon your wrath; neither give place to the devil.” “There wrath
breaks the lock, the devil will quickly be over the threshold; and
though they be allayed, yet they leave the heart sometime after. ldie the
sea rollin and swelling after the storm is ceased. Mixture with ill
companydeaves a tincture upon us in worship. Ephraim’s allying
himself with the Gentiles, bred an indiffereney in religion (Hos. vii.
8); “Ephraim hath mixed himself with the people; Ephraim is a
cake not turned :" it will make our hearts, and consequently our
services, half dough, as well as half baked; these and the like, make
tit, Holy Spirit withdraw himself, and then the soul is like a wind-
ls-rul vessel, and can make no way. When the sun departs from
us, it carries its beams away with it; then “doth darkness spread
itself nver the earth, and the beasts of the forests creep out” (Ps. civ.
ZS). When the Spirit withdraws awhile from a good man, it carries
‘ Fitzherbert, POL in llelig. Part Il. c. 19, § 12.

