272 CHARNOCK ON THE A'l'I’RIBUTES
away tthogghh not habgugllé yet) much oi the eiflciting and 
ace; an t en earn ` ositions er u t emse ves om e
glosom of natiual corruptioiii To be gpirituall in worship, we must
bar the door at other times against that which is contrary to tt; as
he that would not be infected with a contagious disease, carries some
preservative about with him, and inures himself to good scents. To
this end, be much in secret ejaculations to God; these are the purwt
flights of the soul, that have more of fervor and less of carnality;
they preserve a liveliness in the spirit, and make it more fit to per-
form solemn stated worship with greater freedom and activity; a
constant use of this would make our whole lives, lives of worship.
As frequentilsinfllul acts iitrengthen habits of sin, so frequent religious
acts stren en abits o ace.
  ;°n§;;d~ ;:$.2eP§”@‘%f:s
. V 1 fl] , g   '
all) the failculties of the soul to cgi; cenitre. hTli;eeso11l fire; loves God,
w en it ath to do with him, is oun to t e lovet o 'ect; it can
mind nothing else during such impressions. When thejaffection is
set to the worship of God, everything the soul hath will be bestowed
tépon it; as David's disposition was to the temple (1 Chron. xxix. 3).
arna; frames, lilée thel fovirlls, vilill lbe lighting uponflthg sacrifice, but
not w en it is in ame ; t ou t e scent of t e es invite them,
yet the heat of the fire drive? them to their distance. A ilaming
ove will singe the flies that endeavor to interrupt and disturb us.
(fghfi laappiness of heaven consists in a full 'attraction ofhthe soul to
u , his glorious influence u on it; there will be suc a diffusion
gf his ‘goodness througlhout the souls of the blesspld, as will unite the
ections erfectl to im; these affections whic are scattered here,
will be thgre gathlered into one flame, mo'/ing to him, and centerin
in him: therefore, the more of a heavenly frame possesses our ag
fections here, the more settled and uniform will our hearts be in all
their motions to God, and o erations about him. Excite a de end-
ence on him: (Prev. xvi. 3§ “Commit thy works to the Lortf and
thy thoughts shall be established.” Let us go out in (}od’s strength,
nr". not in our own ; vain is the help of man in anythin , and vain
is thc helplof the heart. It is through God only we canfgohysaliantly
in spiritua concerns as well as temporal; the want o t ` makes
but sli ht impressions upon the spirit.
3. léourish right conce tions of the majest of God in our minds.
Let us consider that we aiie drawing to God, ihe most amiable object,
the best of beings, worthy of infinite honor, and highly meriting the
highest affections we can give; a God that made the world by a word,
tlkrat upholds the great fpame if heaven ang earth ; a Majestiy; above
t e conceptions o ange s; w o uses not is power to stxi e us to
our deserved unishmen but his love and bountv to allure us; a
God that gaveiall the creditures to serve us, and can: in a trice, make
them as much om' enemies as he hath now made them our servants.
Let us View him in his greatness, and in his goodness, that our heart:
may have a true value of the worship of so great a majesty, and
count it the most worthy employment with all diligence to attend
upon him. When we have a fear of God, it will make our worship

