on srmrrvan wonsrm. 273
serious; when we have a joy in God, it will make our worship du-
rable Our afections will be raised when we represent God in the
mom reverential, endearing, and obliging circumstances. We honor
the majesty of God, when we consider him with due reverence accord-
ing to the greatness and perfection of his works and in this reverence
of his majesty doth worship chiefly consist. Low thoughts of God
will make low 'frames in us before him. If we thought God an
infinite glorious Spirit, how would our hearts be lower than our
knees in his presence! How humbl , how believingly pleading is
the Psalmist, when he considers Godyto be without comparison in
the heavens; to whom none of the sons of the mi hty can be likened;
when there was none like to him in strength am? faithfulness round
about (Ps. lxxxix 6-8). We -should have also deep impressions of
the omniscience of God, and remember we have to deal with a God
that searcheth the heart and trieth “the reins, to whom the most se-
cret.tem(per is as visible as the loudest words are audible; that though
man ju ges by outward expressions, God jpldges by inward affec-
tions. As the law of God regulates the inw frames of the heart,
sothe eye of God pitches upon the inward intentions of the soul.
If God were visibly present with us, should we not approach to him
with strong afections, summon our spirits to attend u on him, be~
have ourselves modestly before him? Let us consider Ee is as really
present with us, as if he were visible to us ' let us, therefore, preserve
astronff sense of the presence of God. Nao man, but one out of his
wits, when he were in the presence of a rinee, and making a speech
to him, would break off at every period? and run after the catching
of butterflies. Remember in al worship you are before the Lord,
to whom all things are o en and naked.
4. Let us take heed of? inordinate desires after the world. As the
world steals awa a man`s heart from the word, so it doth from all
other worship; “lt chokes the word” (Matt.  273; it stifles all the
spiritual breathin after God in every duty; the e ge of the soul is
blunted by it, ands made too dull for such sublime exercises. The
apostle’s rule in prayer, when he joins “sobriety with watching unto
prayer" (1 Pet. iv. 3, is of concern in all worship, sobriety in the
ggsuit and use of worldly things. A man drunk with worldly
es cannot watch, cannot be heavenly, affectionate, spiritual in
service. There is a magnetic force in the earth to hinder our flights
to heaven. Birds, when they take their irst flights from the earthi
have more flutterings of their wings, than when they are mounte
further in the air, and got more without the sphere of the earth’s
attractiveness: the motion of their wings is more steady, that you
0311 ‘perceive them stir; they move like a ship with a full gale, The
wor d is a clog upon the soul, and a bar to spiritual frames; it is as
lmrd to elevate the heart to God in the midst of a hurry of worldly
aiiixirs, as it is difricult to meditate when we are near a great noise
of waters fallin from a precipice, or in the midst of a volley of mus~
kets, Thick clayey affections bemire the heart, and make it unfit
ibr such high flights it is to take in worship; therefore, get your
hearts clear from worldly thoughts and desires, if you would be more
Spiritual in worship.
vol. 1.-18

