274 cmumocx ON 'rss ATTRIBUTES.
5. Let us be deeply sensible of our resent wants, and the supplies
we may meet with in worship. Cold affections to the things we
gwould rave will grow cooler; weakness of desire for the comm uni-
cations in worship, will freeze our hearts at the time of worship, and
-make way for vain and foolish diversions. A beggar that is ready
to Herish, and knows he is next door to ruin, will not slightly and
du y beg an alms, and will not be diverted from his importumty by
every slight call, or the moving of an atom in the air. Is it pardon
we would have? let us apprehend the blackness of sin, with the ag-
gravations of it as it res eets God; let us be deeply sensible of the
want of pardon and wortli of mercy, and get your afieetions into such
a frame as a condemned man would do; let us consider, that as we
are now at the throne of God’s grace, we shall shortly be at the bar
of God’s justice; and if the soul should be forlorn there, how tixedly
and earnestly would it plead for mercy! Let us endeavor to stir up
the same atiections now, which we have seen some dying men have,
and which we suppose despairing souls would have done at God's
tribunal. We must be sensible that the life or death of our souls
depends upon worship! Would we not be ashamed to be ridiculous
in our carriage while we are eating; and shall we not be ashamed to
be cold or garish before God, when the salvation of our souls, as well
as the honor of God, is concerned? If we did see the heaps of sins,
the eternity of punishment due to them; if we did see an angry and
offended Jud e; if we did see the riches of mere , the glorious outf
goings of _ Gog in the sanctuary, the blessed doles lie gives out to men
when they spiritually attend upon him, 'both the one and the other
would make us perform our duties humbly, sincerely, earnestly, and
affectionately, and wait upon him with our whole souls, to have
misery averted, and mercy bestowed. Let om' sense of this be en-
couraged by the consideration of our Saviour presenting his merits;
with what affection doth he present his merits, his blood shed upon
the cross, now in heaven? And shall our hearts be cold and frozen,
flitting and unsteady, when his affections are so much concerned?
Christ doth not resent any man’s case and duties without a sense
of his wants; andp shall we have none of our own? Let me add this;
let us affect our hearts with a sense of what supplies we have met
with in former worship; the delightful remembrance of what con-
verse we have had with God in former worship would spiritualizc
our hearts for the present worship. Had Peter had a view of Christ’s
glory in the mount fresh in his thoughts, he would not so easily have
turned his back upon his Master, nor would the Israelites have beer
at leisure for their idolatry, had they preserved the sense of the ma
jesty of God discovered in his late thunders from Mount Sinai.
6. If an 'thing intrudes that may choke the worship, cast it speed
ily out. Vie cannot hinder Satan and our own corruption from pre
senting coolers to us, but we may hinder the success of them; wc
cannot hinder the gnats from buzzing about us when we are ir: our
business, but we may prevent them from settling upon us. A man
that is running on a. considerable errand, will shun all unni.ccssa1'y
discourse, that may make him forget or loiter in his business. W has
‘ Guliel. Paris. Rhetor. Divin. c. 26, p. 850, col. I.

