ON srmrrnan wonsmr. 27 5
though there may be something offered that is good in itself; yet if \
it hath a tendency to despoil God of his honor, and ourselves of the
spiritual intentness in worship, send it away. Those that weed a
field of corn, examine not the nature and particular virtues of the
weeds, but consider only how they choke the corn, to which the
native juice of the soil is designed. Consider what you are about;
andif anything inter ~ that may divert you, or cool your affections
in your present worslii); cast it out.
7. As to private worshi , let us lay hold of the most melting op»
portunities and frames. When we iind our hearts in a more than
ordinar spiritual frame, let us look upon it as a call from God to
attend him; such impressions and notions are God’s voice, invitin
us into communion with him in some particular act of worship, and
promising us some success in it. When the Psalmist had a secret
motion to “seek Gocl’s face” (Ps. xxvii. 8), and complied with it,
thejssue is the encouragement of his heart, which breaks out into
an exhortation to others to be of good courage, and wait on the
Lord (v. 13, 14): “Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he
shall strengthen thy heart; wait., I say, on the Lord.” One blow
will do more on the iron when it is hot, than a hundred when it is
cold; melted metals may be stam ed with any impression ; ‘but, once
hardened, will with diiiieulty be hrought into the figure we intend."
8. Let us examine oiuselves at the end of every act of worship,
and chide ourselves for any carnality we perceive in them. Let us
take a review of them, and examine the reason, why art thou so low
-and carnal, O my soul? as David did of his dis uietedncss (Ps. xlii.
5): “Why art thou cast down, O m soul, and why art thou dis-
quieted within me ?” If any unwortliiy frames have surprised us in
worship, let us seek them out after worship; call them to the oar;
make an exact scrutiny into the causes of them, that we may pre-
vent their incursions another time; let our pulses beat quick by way
of anger and indignation against them; this would be a repairing
what hath been amis; otherwise they may grow, and clog an after-
worship more than they did a former. Daily examination is an an-
tidote against the temptations of the following day, and constant
examination of ourselves after duty is a preservative against vain en-
croachments in following duties; and upon the finding them out, let
us apply the blood of Christ by faith for our cure, and draw strength
from the death of Christ for the conquest of them, and let us also be
humbled for them. God lifts u the humble; when we are humbled
for our carnal frames in one dliity, we shall find ourselves by the
grace of God more elevated in the next.
' Eeynohk.

