DISCOURSE V.
ON THE ETERNITY OF GOD.
PIALI xc. 2.-Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst fonned the
earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting. thou art God.
THE title of this salm is a prayer; the author, Moses. Some
think not only this, bint the ten following psalms, were composed by
him. The title wherewith he is dignined is, “ The man of God,” as
also in Dent. xxxiii. 1. One inspired by him to be his interpreter,
and deliver his oraeles; one particularly directed by him ;= one who
as a servant did diligently ern loy himself in his master’s business,
and acted for the glory of Go<i);y he was the minister of the Old '1‘es-
tamcnt, and the prophet of the New!
There are two parts of this psalm. 1. A complaint of the frailty
of man’s life in general (v. 3-6); and then a particular complaint of
the condition of the church (v. 8-10). 2. A prayer (v. 12g But'
before he speaks of the shortness of human life, he fortifies t em by
the consideration of the refuge they had, and should find in God
(v. 121: “ Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations.
We ave had no settled abode in the earth, since the time of Abra-
ham’s being called out from Ur of the Chaldees. We have had Canaan
in a promise, we have it not yet in possession; we have been exposed
to the cruelties of an o pressing enemy, and the ineommodjties of a
desert wilderness; we have wanted the fruits of the earth, but not
the dews of heaven. “Thou hast been our dwelling-place in all gen-
erations." Abraham was under thy conduct; Isaac and J acqb under
thy care; their pxosterity was multiplied by thee, and that under their
oppressions. T ou hast been our shield against dangers, our secu-
nty in the times of trouble; when we were pursued to the Red Sea,
it was not a creature delivered us; and when we feared the pinching
of our bowels in the desert, it was no creature rained manna upon
us. Thou hast been our dwelling-place; thou hast kept open house
for us, sheltered us ainst storms, and reserved us from mischief,
as a house doth an ihiabitant from wind) and weather; and that not
in one or two, but in all enerations. Some think an allusion is
here made to the ark, to wiich they were to have recourse in all
emergencies. Our refuge and defence hath not been from created
things; not from the ark, but from the God of thc ark. Observe,
1. God is a perpetual refuge and security to his people. His
providence is not confined to one generation; it is not one age
' Coeuei in loc. ’ Austin in loc. ' Pareun in loc.

