ON rm: ETERNITY or son. 271
only that tastes of his bounty and com assion. His eye never
yet slept, nor hath he suffere the little ship of his church to be
swallowed u , though it hath been tossed u on the waves; he
bath alwa been a haven-to preserve us, a libuse to, secure us;
he hath alsvays had coinpassions to pity us, and power to protect
us; he hath had a face to shine, when the world hath had an
angry countenance to frown! He brought Enoch home by an
extraordinary translation from a brutish world; and when he was
resolved to reckon with men for their brutish lives, he lodged Noah,
the phmnix of the world, in an ark, and kc t him alive as a spark
in thc midst of many waters, whereby to rdkindle a church in the
world; in all generations he is a. dwelling-place to secure his peo-
ple here, or entertain them above. His providence is not wearied,
nor his care fainting; he~never wanted will to relieve us, “ for -he
hath been our refuge,” nor ever can want power to sup ort us, “ for
he is a God from everlasting to everlasting.” The church never
wanted a pilot to steer her, and a rock to shelter her, and dash in
pieces the waves which threaten her.
2. How worthy is it to remember former benefits, when we come
to beg for new. Never were the records of God’s mercies so
exactly revised, as when his people have stood in need of new
editions of his power. How necessary are our wants to stir us u
to pay the rent of thankfulness in arrearl He renders himselg
doubly unworthy of the mercies he wants, that doth not grate-
liillv acknowledge the mercies he hath received. God scarce prom-
lsed any deliverance to the Israelites, and they, in their dis-
tress, scarce prayed for an deliverance; but that from E ypt was
mentioned on both sides, h God to encourage them, and diy them
to acknowledge their confimince in him. The greater our dangers,
themone we should call to mind God’s former kindness. We are
not only thankfully to acknowledge the mercies bestowed upon
our Qzons, or in our age, but t ose of former times. “T ou
but n our dwelling-place in all generations." Moses was not
llving in the former generations, et he a ro riates the former
_ .Y gf’ P .
mercies to the present age.~ Mercies, as we as generations, pro-
Oeed out of the loins of those that have gone before. All man-
kind are but one Adam; the whole church but one body. In the
Second verse he backs his former consideration. 1. By the great-
ng of his power in forming the world. 2. By the boundlessness of
his duration: “ From everlastingto everlasting.” As thou hast been
Our dwelling-place, and expended upon us the strength of thy power
Ind riches of thy love, so we have no reason to doubt the contin-
'lance on thynsart, if we be not wanting on our parts; for the vast
mmmtains fruitful earth are the works of thy hands, and
there is les wer requisite for our relief, than there was for their
mation; and” thou h so much strength hath been upon various
WQQODB manifested, yet thy arm is not weakened, for “ &om ever-
12S¥1I1g to everlasting thou art God. ’b Thou hast always been
9011, and no time can be asigned as the beginnin of thy beings
The mountains are not of so long a standing as thyself; they am
' Theodwevin Soc. * bu, strong. ' Amyrald in loc.

