278 cnsrmocx ON THE Arraraurss.
the effects of thy power, and therefore cannot be equal to thy
duration; since they are the effects, they suppose the precedency of
their cause. If we would look back, we can reach no further than
the beginning of the creation, and account the ears from the first
foundation ofthe world ; but after that we must lyose ourselves in the
abyss of eternity; we have no cue to guide our thoughts; we can
see no bounds in thy eternity. But as for man, he traverseth the
world a few days, and by thy order pronounced concerning all
men, returns to the dust, and moulders into the grave. By moun-
tains, some understand angels, as being creatures of a more elevated
nature; by earth, they understand human nature, the earth being
the habitation of men. There is no need to divert in this place
from the letter to such a sense. The description seems to be poeti-
cal, and amounts to this: he neither began with the beginning of
time, nor will expire with the end of it; he did not begin when he
made himself known to our fathers, but' his being did precede the
creation of the world, before any created being was formed, and
any time settled# “Before the mountains were brought forth,"
or before they were begotten or born; the word being used in
those senses in Scripture; before they stood up higher than the
rest of the earthly mass God had created. It seems that mountains
were not casually cast up by the force of the deluge softening the
ground, and driving several parcels of it together, to grow up into
a massy body, as the sea doth the sand in several places; but they
were at first formed by God. The eternity of God is here de-
scribed,
1. In his priority: “Before the world."
2. In the extension of his duration: “From everlasting to ever-
lasting thou art God.” He was before the world, yet he neither
began nor ends; he is not a temporary, but an eternal God; it
takes in both parts of eternity, what was betbre the creation of the
world, and what is after; though the eternitv of God be one per-
manent state, without succession, yet the spirit of God, suiting him-
self to the weakness of our conception, divides it into two parts;
one ast before the foundation of the world, another to come after
the d)estruction of the world; as he did exist before all ages, and
as he will exist alter all ages. Many truths lie couched in the
verse.
1. The world hath a beginning of being: it was not from eter-
nity, it was once nothing; had it been of a_ very long duration,
some records would have remained of some memorable actions done
of a longer date than any extant. 2. The world owes its being to
the creating power of God: “ Thou hast formed it” out of nothin
into being; Thou, that is, God; it could not spring into being 0%
itself; it was nothing; it must have a former. 3. God was in
bein before the world: the cause must be before the efl®t; that
Worr? which gives being, must be before that which receives being.
4. This Being was from eternity: “From everlasting.” 5. This
Being shall endure to eternity: “To everlasting.” 6. There is but
one God, one eternal: “From everlasting to everlasting, thou an
‘ 'Avapxog /cal dreléizmrog, Theodoret in loc. '
""\
__J

