ON THE ETERNITY or con. 279
God.” None else but one hath the property of eternity; the gods
of the heathen cannot lay claim to it.
Docl. God is of an eternal duration. The eternity of God is the
foundation of the stabilit of the covenant, the great comfort of a
Christian. The design ofyGod in Scripture is, to set forth his deal-
ing with men in the way of a covenant. The priority of God
before all things begins the Bible: “In the beginning God created"
(Gen. i. 1). His covenant can have no foundation, but in his dura-
tion before and after the world :‘= and Moses hcre mentions his
etcmity, not only with respect to the essence of God, but to his
federal providence; as he is the dwelling-place of his people in
all generations. The duration of God forever is more spoken of
in Scripture than his eternity, ci parte ante, though that is the foun-
dation of all the comfort we can take from his immortality: if he
had a beginning, he might have an end, and so all our happiness,
hope and being would expire with him; but the Scripture some-
times takes notice of his being without beginning, as well as with-
out end: “Thou art from everlasting” (Ps. xciii. 2); “Blessed be
God from everlasting to everlasting” (Ps. xli. 13); “I was set up
from everlasting” (Prov. viii. 23): if his wisdom were from ever-
lasting, himself was from everlasting: whether we understand it
of Christ the Son of God, or of the essential wisdom of God, it is
all one to the resent purpose. The wisdom of God supposeth the
essence of God? as habits in creatures suppose the being of some
power or faculty as their subject. The wisdom of God supposeth
mind and understanding, essence and substance. The,notion of
eternity is difficult; as Austin said of time,*` if no man will ask me
the question, what time is, I know well enough what it is; but if
any ask me what it is, I know not how to explain it; so may I say
of eternitv; it is eas ' in the word pronounced, but hardly under-
stood, and more hardly ex ressed; it is better expressed by nega-
tive than positive words. 'llhough we cannot comprehend eternity,
yet we may comprehend that there is' an eternity; as, though we
cannot comprehend the essence of God what he is, yet we may
comprehend that he is; we may understand the notion of his exist-
ence, though we cannot understand the infiniteness of his nature;
Egtwe may better understand eternity than infiniteness; we can
er conceive a time with the addition of numberless days and
years, than imagine a Being without bounds; whence the apostle
Joins his eternity with his power; “His eternal power and God-
head" (Rom. i. 20); because, next to the power of God, apprehend-
ed in the creature, we come necessarily by reasoning, to acknowl-
edge the eternity of God. He that hath an incomprehensible power
must needs have an eternity of nature; his power is most sensi-
ble in the creatures to the eye of man, and his eternity easily from
thence deducible by the reason of man. Eternity is a perpetual
duration, which hath neither beginning nor end; time hath both.
Those things-we say are in time that have beginning, grow up by
fiffgrees, have succession of arts; eternity is contrary to time, and
I8 therefore a permanent andp immutable state ; a perfect possession
° Cslv. in loc. ' Coufes. lib. ii. Confes. 14.

