280 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'1‘RIBU’l'§.
of life without any variation; it comprehends in itself all years
all ages, all periods of ages; it never begins; it endures after every
duration of time, and never ceaseth; it doth as much outrnn time,
as it went before the beginnin of it: time supposeth something
before it; but there can be notiing before eternity; it were not
then eternity. Time hath a continual succession; the former time
passeth away and another succeeds: the last year is not this year,
nor this year the next. We must conceive of eternity contrary to
the notion of time; as the nat1u‘e of time consists in the succes~
sion of parts, so the nature of eternity in an infinite immutable
duration. Eternity and time differ as the sea and rivers; the sea
never changes place, and is always one water; but the rivers glide
along, and are swallowed up in the sea; so is time by eternity;
A thing is said to be eternal, or everlasting rather, in Scripture,
1. When it is of a long duration, though it will have an end;
when it hath no measures of time determined to it; so circumcision
'is said to be in the flesh for an “everlasting covenant" (Gen. xyii.
13) ; not purely everlasting, but so long as that administration of the
covenant should endure. And so when a servant, would not leave
his master, but would have his ear bored, it is said, he should be a
servant “forever” (Deut. xv. 17); i. e. till the jubilee, which was
every fiftieth iyear: so the meat-offering they were to oiier is said to
be “ perpetua ” (Lev. vi. 20); Canaan issai to be givento Abraham
for an “everlasting” possession (Gen. xvii. 8); w en as the Jews
are expelled from Canaan, which is given a prey to the barbarous
nations. Indeed circumcision was not everlasting; yet the substance
of the covenant whereof this was a sign, viz. that God would be the
God of believers, endures forever; and that circumcision of the
heart, which was signined b ' circumcision of the flesh, shall remain
forever in the kingdom of glory : it was not so much the lasting of
the sign, as of the thing signified by it, and the covenant scaled by
it: the sign had its abolition; so that, the apostle is so peremptory
in it, that he asserts, that if any went about to establish it, he ex-
cluded himself from a participation of Christ (Gal. v. 2). The sacri-
fices were to be erpetual, in regard to the thing signified by them;
viz. the death ofp Christ, which was to endure in the eiiicacy of it:
and the passover was to be “ forever” (Exod. xii. 24), in regard of
the redemption signified by it, which was to be of everlasting re-
membrance. Canaan wasto be an everlasting possession. in regard
of the glory of heaven typined, to be forever conferred upon the
spiritual seed of Abraham. ’ _
2. W'hen a thing hath no end, though it hath a beginning. &
angels and souls are everlasting; though their being shall never
cease, yet there was a time when their being began; they were
nothing before they were something, though they shall never be
nothing again, but shall live in endless ha piness or misery. But
that properly is eternal that hath neither beginning nor end; and
thus eternity is a propertiy of God.
In this doctrine l shal show, I. How God is eternal, or in what
mspects eternity is his property. II. That he is eternal, ard must
I Moulin. Cod. 1, Ser. 2, p. 52.

