‘ ON 'mm ETERNITY or son. 281
needs be so. III. That eternity is only roper to God, and not
common to him with any creature. IV. Tile use.
I. How God is eternal, or in what res cts he is so. Eternity is
a negative attribute, and is a denying of glad any measures of time,
as immensity is a den ing of him any bounds of place. As immen-
sity is the diffusion ofy his essence, so eternity is the duration of his
essence; and when we say God is eternal, we exclude from him all
possibility of beginning and ending, all flux and change. As the
essence of God cannot be bounded by any place, so it is not to be
limited by any time: as it is his irnmensity to be eve where, so it
is his etemity to be alway. As created things are said, to be some-
where in regard of place, and to be resent, past, or fiiture, in regard
of time; so the Creator in regard ol? place is everywhere, in regard
of time is sempa-.11 His duration is as endless as his essence is bound-
lem: he always was and always will be, and will no more have an
end than he had a beginning; and this is an excellenc belonging
to the Su reme Being) As his essence comprehends ally beings, and
exceeds them, and his immensity surmounts all laces; so his eter-
pity comprehends all times, all durations, and infinitely excels
em!
1. Godis without beginning. “In the beginning” God created
the world (Gen. i. 1). God was then before the beginning of it; and
what point can be set wherein God began, if he were before the be-
ginnin of-created things? God was without beginning, though all
other things had time and beginning from him. As unity is before
all numbers, so is God before all his creatures. Abraham called
upon the name of the everlasting God (Gen. xxi. 33) the eternal
God.‘-It is opposedto the heathen gpds, which were but of yester-
day, new coined, and so new; but t e eternal God was before the
world was made. In that sense it is to be understood; “ The mys-
tery which was kept secret since the world began, but now is made
manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the
command of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the
Obedience of faith" (Rom. xvi. 26). The gospel is not preached by
the command of a new and temporary god, but of that God that was
before all : though the manifestation of it be in time, yet the
Eeurpose anafifsesolve of it was from eternity. If there were decrees
fore the foundation of the world, there was a Decreer before the
foundation of the world. Before the foundation of the world he
loved Christ as a Mediator; a fore-ordination of him was before the
foundation of the world (John xvii. 24); a choice of men, and there-
fore a Chooser before the foundation of the world §Eph. i. 4); a grace
given in Christ before the world began (2 Tim. 1. 9), and therefore
I1 Donor of that grace. From those places, saith Crellius, it appears
that God was betbre the foundation of the world, but they do not
assert an absolute eternity; but to be before all creatures is e uiva-
lcnt to his being from eternity.” 'I‘ime began with the foundation
of the world ; but God being before time, could have no bcginnin
U1 time. Before the beginning of the creation, and the beginning 0?
\ Galsend. ‘ Crellius de Deo. c. 18. p. 41. * Lingend Tom. II. p. 49 3.
'nbws 5; - Coecei sum p. 48. Thwl. Gerhard Exegea. a. 86.4. p. aes.

