 ;
gi
282 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES. ‘
time, there could be nothing but eternity; nothing but what was un-
created, that is, nothing but what was without beginning. 'l‘o be in
time is to have a beginning; to be before all time is never to have
a beginning, but always to be; for as between the Creator and
creatures there is no medium, so between time and elernit ’ there is
no medium. It is as easily deduced that he that was before all
creatures is eternal, as he that made all creatures is God. If he had
a be inning, he must have it from another, or from himself; if from
another, that from whom he received his being would be better than
he, so more a God than he. He cannot be God that is not supreme ;
he cannot be supreme that owes his being to the power of another.
He would not be said only to have immortality as he is (1 Tim. vi.
16), if he had it dependent u on another; nor could he have a be-
ginning from himself; if he lgad given beginning to himself, then he
was once nothing; there was a time when he was not; if he was not,
how could he be the Cause of himself? It is impossible for any to
give a beginning and being to itself: if it acts it must exist, and so
exist before it existed. A thing would exist as a cause befone it
existed as an effect. He that is not, cannot be the cause that he is;
if, therefore, God doth exist, and hath not his being from another,
he must exist from eternity. Therefore, when we say God is of and
from himself, we mean not that God gave being to himself; but it is
negatively to be understood that he hath no cause of existence with-
out himselfl Whatsoever number of millions of millions of years
we can imagine before the creation of the world, yet God was in-
finitely before those; he is therefore called the “Ancient of Days”
(Dan. vii. 9), as being before all days and time, and eminently con-
taining in himself all times and ages. Though, indeed, God cannot
properly be called ancient, that will testify that he is decaying, and
shortl will not be; no more than he can be called young, which
wouldy signify that he was not long before. All created things are
new and fresh ; but no creature can find out any beginning of God:
it is impossible there should be any beginning of him.
2. God is without end. He always was, always is, and always
will be what he is. He remains always the same in being; so far
from any change, that no shadow of it can touch him (James i. 17).
He will continue in being as long as he hath already enjo 'ed it; and
if we could add never so many millions of years togetiier, we are
still as far from an end as from a beginning; for “the Lord shall
endure forever" (Ps. ix. 7). As it is impossible `he should not be,
being from all eternity, so it is impossib e that he should not be to
all eternity. The Scripture is most plentiful in testimonies of this
eternity of God, ti parte post, or after the creation of the world: he is
said to “live forever” (Rev. iv. 9, 10). The earth shall perish, but
God shall “endure forever," and his “years shall have no end” (Ps.
cii. 27). Plants and animals grow up from small beginnings, arrive
to their full growth, and decline again, and have always remarkable
alterations in their nature; but there is no declination in God by all
the revolutions of time. Hence some think the incorruptibilitv of
the Deity was signified by the shittim, or cedar wood, whereof the
ark \vas made, it being of an incorruptible nature 1Exod. xxv. 10)

