ON 'mn ETERNITY or con. 283
That which had no beginning of duration can never have an end, or
any interruptions in it. Since God never de nded n on any, what
should make him cease to be what eternally his hath been, or put a
stop to the continuance of his perfections? He cannot will his own
destruction; that is against universal nature in all things to cease
from being, if they can preserve themselves. He cannot desert his
own being, because he cannot but love himselfas the best and chiefest
good. The reason that anything decays is either its own native weak-
nem, or a superior power of something contrary to it. There is no
weakness in the nature of God that can introduce any corruption,
because he is infinitel simple without any mixture; nor can he be
overpowered by anytliing else; a weaker cannot hurt him, and a.
stronger than he there cannot be; nor can he be outwitted or cir-
cumvented, because of his infinite wisdom." As he received his
being from none, so he cannot be deprived of it by any: as he doth
necessarily exist, so he doth necessarily always exist. This, indeed,
is the property of God; nothing so proper to him as always to be.
Whatsoever rfections any being hath, if it be noteternal, it is not
divine. Godpfbnly is immorta1;° he only is so by a necessity of
nature. Angels, souls, and bodies too, after the resurrection, shall
be immortal, not by nature, but grant; they are subject to return to
nothing, if that word that raised them from nothing should speak
them into nothing again. It is as easy with God to strip them of it,
as to invest them with it; nay, it is impossible but that they should
perish, if God should withdraw his power from preserving them,
which he exerted in creating them; but God is immovably tixed in
his own being; that as none gave him his life, so none can deprive
him of his life, or the least particle of it. Not a jot of the ha piness
and life which God infinitely possesses can be lost; it will) be as
durable to everlasting, as it hath been possessed from everlasting.
3. There is no succession in God. God is without succession or
change. It is a part of eternity; “from everlasting to everlasting
he is God,” i. e. the same. God doth not only always remain in
being, but he always remains the same in that being: “thou art the
same" (Ps. cii. 27). The being of creatures is successive; the being
of God is permanent, and remains entire with all its perfcctions un-
chan d in an infinite duration. Indeed, the first notion of eternity
is roi without beginning and end, which notes to us the duration
Of a being in regard of its existence; but to have no succession,
nothing first or last, notes rather the perfection of a being in regard
of its essence. The creatures are in a. perpetual flux; something is
acquired or something lost every day. A man is the same in regard
Of existence when he is a man, as he was when he was a child; but
there is a new succession of quantities and qualities in him. Every
day he acquires something till he comes to his maturity; every day
he loseth something till he comes to his period. A man is not the
Same at night that he was in the morning; something is expired,
and something is added; every day there is a change in his age, a
¢i78Df’€ in his substance, a change in his accidents. But God hath
his wehole being in one and the same point, or moment of eternity.
‘ Crellius de Deo, c. 18, p. 41. - ° `l Tim. vi. 16. Dai1le,in loc.

