284 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
He receives nothing as an addition to what he was before; he loseth
nothing of what he was before; he is always the same excellency
and erfection in the same infiniteness as ever. His years do not
fail (ldeb. i. 12), his years do not come and go as others do; there is
not this day, to-morrow, or esterday, with him. As nothing is past
or future with him in regartll of knowledge, but all things are present,
so nothing is past or future in regard of his essence. He is not in
his essence this day what he was not before, or will be the next day
and year what he is not now. All his perfections are most perfect
in him every moment; before all ages, after all ages.P As he hath
his whole essence undivided in every place, as well as in an immense
space, so he hath all his being in one moment of time, as well as in
infinite intervals of time. Some illustrate the difference between
eternity and time by the similitude of a tree, or a rock standing
upon t e side of a river, or shore of the sea; the tree stands always
the same and unmoved, while the waters of the'river glide alonfiat
the foot. The flux is in the river, but the tree acquires nothing ut
a diverse respect and relation of presence to the various parts of the
river as they flow. The waters of the river press on, and plush for-
ward one another, and what the river had this minute, it ath not
the same the next.<l So are all sublunary things in a continual flux.
And though the angels have no substantial change, yet they have
an accidental; for the actions of the angels this day are not the same
individual actions which they performed yesterday: but in God
there is no change; he always remains the same. Of a creature, it
mag' be said he was, or he is, or he shall be; of God it cannot be
sai but on1_ he is.f He is what he always was, and he is what he
always will be; whereas a creature is what he was not, and will be
what he is not now. As it may be said of the flame of a candle, it
is a flame: but it is not the same individual flame as was before, nor
is it the same that will be presently after; there is a continual disso-
lution of it into air, and a continual sup l for the generation of
more. While it continues it may be sa1d)tllere is a flame; yet not
entirely one, but in a succession of parts. So of a man it may be
said, he is in a succession of parts; but he is not the same that he
was, and will not be the same that he is. But God is the same,
without anyisuccession of parts and of time; of him it may be said,
“ He is.” e is no more now than he was, and he shall be no more
hereafter than he is. God ossesses a. firm and absolute being,
always constant to himself' lie sees all thin sliding under him
in a continual variation; he beholds the revollsitions in the world
without any change of his most glorious and immovable nature.
All other things pass from one state to another; from ther original,
to their eclipse and destruction; but God possesses his being in one
indivisible point, having neither beginnin , end, nor middle.
(L) There is no succession in the knowledge of God. The variety
of successions and changes in the world make not succession, or new
I Lessius de Perfect. Divin. lib. iv. c. 1.
‘I Gamacheus in Aquin. Part I. Qu. 10. e. l.
* Gnssend. Tom. I. Physic. § 1. lib. ii. o. 'L p. 828.
' Daille, Malange de Sermon, p. 262.

