ON 'mn El'ERNI'|.‘Y or con. 285
objects in the Divine mind; for all things are present to him from
eternity in regard of his knowledge, though they are not actually
present in the world, in regard of their existence. He doth not
now one thing now, and another anon; he sees all things at once;
“ Known unto God are all things from the beginning of the world”
(Acts xv. 18); but in their true order of succession, as the lie in
the eternal council of God, to be brought forth in time. 'lyhough
there be a succession and order of thin as they are wrought, there
is yet no succession in God in regards of his knowled e of them.
God knows the things that shall be wrought, and the orger of them
in their being brought upon the stage of the world; et both the
things and the order he knows by one act. Though all things be
present with God, yet they are present to him in the order of their
appearance in the world, and not so present with him as if they
s ould be wrought at once. The death of Christ was to precede his
resurrection in order of time; there is a succession in this; both at
once are known by God; yet the act of his knowledge is not exer-
cised about Christ as dying and rising at the same time; so that
there is succession in things when there is no succession in God’s
knowledge of them. Since God knows time, he knows all things
as they are in time; he doth not know all things to be at once,
though he knows at once what is, has been, and will be. All things
are past, present, and to come, in regard of their existence; but
there is not past, present, and to come, in regard of God’s knowledge
of them) because he sees and knows not b any other, but by him-
self; he is his own light by which he sees, his own glass wherein he
sees; beholding himself; he beholds all things.
(2.) There is no succession in the decrees of God. He doth not
decree this now, which he decreed not before; for as his works were
known from the beginning of the world, so his works were decreed
from the beginning of the world; as they are known at once, so they
are decreed at once; there is a succession in the execution of them;
first grace, then glory; but the purpose of God for the bestowing of
both, was in one and the same moment of eternity. “ He chose us in
him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy”
(Eph. i. 4): The choice of Christ, and the choice of some in him to
be holy and to be happy, were before the foundation of the world.
It is by the eternal counsel of God all things appear in time; they
appear in their order according to the counsel and will of God from
etemity. The redemption of the world is after the creation of the
world; but the decree whereby the world was created, and whereby
it was redeemed, was from eternity.
(3.) God is his own etemity. He is not eternal by grant, and the
disposal of any other, but by nature and essence." The eternity of
God is nothing else but the duration of God; and the diuation of
God is nothing else but his existence enduring! If eternity were
anything distinct from God, and not of the essence of God,‘then there
would be something which was not God, necessary to perfect God.
As immortality is the great perfection of a. rations. creature, so eter-
nity is the choice perfection of God, yea, the gloss and lustre of all
‘ Parlimsis. ‘ Calov. Socinian. ' Existentia d\ll'BD|.

