286 CHARNOCK ON 'rss ATTRIBUTES.
others. Everv perfection would be imperfect, if it were not always
a perfection. God is essentially whatsoever he is, and there is nothing
in God but his essence. Duration or continuance in being in crea-
tures, differs from their being; for they might exist but for one in-
stant, in which case they may be said to have being, but not duration,
because all duration includes prius et poswrius. All creatures may
cease from being if it be thc leasure of God; they are not, therefore,
durable by their essence, and) therefore are not their own duration,
no more than they are their own existence. And though some crea-
tures, as angels, and souls, may be called everlasting, as a rpetual
life is communicated to them b ' God; yet they can neverlii: called
their own eternity, because such a duration is not simply necessary,
nor essential to them, but accidental, depending upon the leasure
of another; there is nothing in their nature that can hindier them
from losing it, if God, from whom they received it, should design to
take it away; but as God is his own necessity of existing, so he is his
own duration in existing; as he doth necessarily exist by himself, so
he will always neeessaril exist by himself!
(4.) Hence all the perfsections of God are eternal. In regard of the
Divine eternity, all things in God are eternal; his power, mercy,
wisdom, justice, knowledge. God himself were not eternal if any of
his perfbctions, which are essential to him, were not eternal also; he
had not else been a perfect God from all eternity, and so his whole
self had not been eternal. ` If anything belonging to the nature ofa
thing be wanting, it cannot be said to be that thing which it ought
to he. If anything requisite to the nature of God had been wanting
one moment, he could not have been said to be an eternal God.
II. God is eternal. The Spirit of God in Scripture condescends to
our capacities in sipifying the eternity of God by days and years,
which are terms belonging to time, whereb we measure it (Ps. eii.
27). But we must no more conceive that Geri’ is bounded or measured
by time, and hath succession of days, because of those expressions,
than we can conclude him to have a body, because members are
ascribed to him in Scripture, to help our conceptions of his glorious
nature and operations. Though years are ascribed to him, yet they
are such as cannot be numbered, cannot bc Hnished, since there is
no roportion between the duration of God, and the years of men.
“Tile number of his years cannot be searched out, for he makes
small the drops of water; they pour down rain according to the
vapor thereof’ (Job xxxvi. 26, 27). The numbers of the drops of rain
which have fallen in all parts of the earth since the creation of the
world, if subtracted from the number of the years of God, would be
tbund a small quantity, a mere nothing, to the years of God. As all
the nations in the world compared with God, are but as the “drop
of a bucket, worse than nothing, than vanity” (Isa. xl. 15); so all the
ages of the world, if com arcd with God, amount not to so much as
the one hundred thousandth art of a minute; the minutes from the
creation may be numbered, but the years of the duration of God
being infinite, are without measure. As one day is to the life of man,
so are a thousand years to the life of God. The Holy Ghost ex-
Y Gassend.

