ON 'mm ETERNITY or son. 287
prvsseth himself to the capacity of man, to give us some notion of an
infinite duration, by a resemblance suited to the ca acity of man!
If a thousand ears be but as a day to the life of God? then as a year
is to the life ol? man, so are three hundred and sixty-live thousand
years to the life of God; an_d as seventy years are to the life of man,
so are twenty-live millions four hundred and fifty thousand years to
the life of God. Yet still, since there is no proportion betweentime
and eternity, we must dart our thoughts be_yond all those; for years
and days measure onl the duration of created things, and of those
only that are material, and eorporeal, subject to the motion of the
heavens, which makes days and years! Sometimes this eternity is
expressed by parts, as looking backward and forward; by the dit?
ferences ot' time, “past, present, and to come” (Rev. i. 8), “which
was, and is, and is to come” (Rev. iv. 8)," Though this might be
spoken of anything in being, though but for an hour, it wa.s the last
minute, it is now, and it will be the next minute; yet the Holy
Ghost would declare something proper to God, as including all parts
of time; he always was, is now, and always shall be. It might always
be said of him, he was, and it may always be said of him, he will be;
there is no time when he began, no time when he shall cease. It can-
not be ,said of a creature he always was, he always is what he was,
and he always will be what he is; but God always is what he was,
and always will be what he is; so that it is a very significant expres-
sion of the eternity of God, as can be suited to our ca acities.
_ 1. Ilis eternity is evident, by the name God gives himself (Exod.
iii. 14): “And God said unto Moses, I am that I am; thus shalt thou
say to the children of Israel, ‘ I Arn hath sent me unto you.’ " This
is the name whereb he is distinguished from all creatures; I Am, is
his proper name. Tlhis description being in the present tense, shows
that his essence knows no past, nor future; if it were he was, it would
intimate he were not now what he once was; if it were he will be, it
would intimate he were not yet what he will be; but I Am; I am
the only being, the root of all beings; he is therefore, at the greatest
dlstance from not being, and that is eternal. So that is signities his
eternity, as well as his perfection and immutability. As I Am speaks
the want of no blessedness, so it speaks the \vant of no duration; and
therefore the French, wherever they find this word Jehovah, in the
Scripture, which we translate Lord, and Lord eternal, render it the
Eternal,-I am always and immutably the same. The eternity of
God is opposed to the volubility of time, which is extended into past,
present and to come. Our time is but a small drop, as a sand to all
the atoms and small particles of which the world is made; but God
ls an unbounded sea of being. “I Am that I Am ;” i. e. an infinite
llfe; I have not that now, which I had not formerly; I shall not
afterwards have that which I have not now; I am that in every
moment which I was, and will be in all moments of time; nothing
Call   added to me, nothing can be detracted from me; there is
lwthrng superior to him, which can detract frc n him; nothing desi-
' Ps. xc 4. Amyrald, Trin. p. 44.
‘ Dallle, Vent. Sermons, Serin. I. sur 102 Ps. 27. p. 21.
' Crolliul weakens this argument, De Deo, c. 18, p. 42.

