288 cnxnrrocx ON ran Airnmrrrns.
table that can be added to him. Now if there were any beginning
and end of God, any succession in him, he could not be "1 Am;”°
for in regard of what was past, he would not be; in regard of what
was to come, he is not yet; and upon this account a heathen argues
well ;d of all creatures it may be said they were, or they will be; but
of God it cannot be said anything else but est, God is, because he fills
an eternal duration. A creature cannot be said to be, if it be not yet.,
nor if it be not now, but hath been.” God only can be called “I
Am ;” all creatures have more of not being, than being; for every
creature was nothing from eternity, before it was made something in
time; and if it be incorruptiblc in its whole nature, it will be nothing
to eternity after it hath been something in time; and if it be not cor-
ruptible in its nature, as the angels, or in every part of its nature, as
man in re ard of his soul; yet it hath not properly a being, because
it is deperélent upon the pleasure of God to continue it, or deprive it
of it; and while it is, it is mutable, and all mutability is a. mixture
of not being. If God therefore be properly “I Am, ’ ff. e. being, it
follows that he always was; for if he were not always, he must, as
was argued before, be produced by some other, or by himself; by
another he could not; then he had not been God, but a creature; nor
by himself, for then as producing, he must be before himself; as pro-
duced; he had been before he was. And he always will be; for being
“I Am,” having all being in himself, and the fountain of all being to
everything else, how can he ever have his name changed to I am not.
2. God hath'life in himself (John V. 26) : “ The Father hath life
in himself ;" he is the “living God;” therefore “steadfast forever"
(Dan. vi. 26). He hath life by his essence, not by participation. He
is a sun to give light and life to all creatures, but receives not light
or life from an thing; and therefore he hath an unlimited life, not
a drop of life, but a fountain; not a s ark of a limited life, but a
life transcending all bounds. He hath life in himself; all creatures
havevtheir life in him and from him. He that hath life in himself
doth necessarily exist, and could never be made to exist; for then
he had not life in himself, but in that which made him to exist, and
gave him life. W'hat doth necessarily exist therefore, exists from
eternity; what hath being of itself could never be roduccd in time,
could not want being one moment, because it hath being from its es-
sence, without intluence of any efficient cause. When God pro-
nounced his name, “I Am that I Am,” angels and men were in
being; the world had been created above two thousand four hundred
years; Moses, to whom he then speaks, was in bein ; yet God onlv
is, because he only hath the fountain of being in himself; but all
that they were was a rivulet from him. He hath from nothing else,
that he doth subsist; everything else hath its subsistence from him
as their root, as the beam from the sun, as the rivers and fountains
from the seaf All life is seated in God, as in its proper throne, in
its most erfect purity. God is life; it is in him originally, radical-
ly, therefbre eternally. He is a pure act, nothing but vigor and act'
he hath by his nature that life which others have by his grant
° Thee. Salmur. p. 1. p I46. Thea. 14. 4 Plutnrch de El. I. p. 392.
° Perer. in Exo. 3. Disput. 18. _ " Petav. Tlieol. Dugui Tum. I. lib;i.c. 6, §8, 1°

