ON 'mn ETERNITY or son. 289
whence the Apostle saith (1 Tim. vi. 16) not only that he is immor-
tal, but he hat immortality in a full possession; fee simple, not de-
pguding ugm the will of another, but containin all things within
` lfl e that hath life in himself, and is from himself, cannot bu!
be. He always was, because he received his being from no other,
and none can take away that being which was not given by another.
If there were aniy space before he did exist, then there was some-
thing which ma c him to exist; life would not then be in him, but
in that which produced him into being; he could not then be God,
but that other which gave him being would be Gods And to say
God sprung into being by chance, when we see nothin in the world
that is brought forth by chance, but hath some cause 0? its existence,
would be vain; for since God is a being, chance, which is nothing,
could not bring forth something; and by the same reason, that he
sprung up by chance, he might totally vanish b chance. What a
strange notion of a God would this be! such a (ibd that had no lif`e
in himself but from chance! Since he hath life in himself, and that
there was no cause of his existence, he can have no cause of his
limitation, and can no more be determined to a time, than he can to
a place. What hath life iu_ itself, hath life without bounds, and can
never desert it, nor be deprived of it; so that he lives necessarily,
and it is absolutely impossible that he should not live; whereas all
other things “ live, and move, and have their being in him” (Acts
xvii. 28); and as they live by his will, so they can return to nothing
at his word.
3. If God were not eternal, he were not immutable in his nature.
It is contrary to the nature of immutability to be without eternity;
for whatsoever begins, is changed in its passing from not being to
being. It began to be what it was not; and if it ends, it ceaseth to
be what it was; it cannot therefore be said to be God, if there were
neither beginning or ending, or succession in it (Mal. iii. 6): “I am
the Lord, I change not ;” (Job xxxvii. 23) : “ Touchin the Al-
might , we cannot find him out.” God argues here, saigi Calvin,
from his unchangeable nature as Jehovah, to his immutability in his
purpose. Had he not been eternal, there had been the greatest
change from nothing to something. A change of essence is greater
than a change of purpose. God is a sun glittering always in the
lame glory; no growing up in youth; no passing on to age. If' he
were not without succession, standing in one point of eternity, there
would be a change from past to present, from present to future. 'I‘he
eternity of God is a. shie d against all kind of mutability. If' any-
thing ls-prang up in the essence of God that was not there befbre,
he co d not be said to be either an eternal, or an unchanged sub-
stance.
4. God could not be an ininitely perfect Being, if he were not
eternal A finite duration is inconsistent with infinite perfection.
Whatsoever is contracted within the limits of time, cannot swallow
up all perfections in itselfi God hath an unsearchable perfection.
“flanst thou by searching Bud out God? canst thou find out the Al-
mighty unto perfection ?’ (Job xi. 7.) He cannot be found out: he
I Amyrald de Trinit. p. 48.
vcr. I.-19 .

