f 
290 CHAIRNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
is infinite, because he is incomprehensible. Ineom rehensibility
ariseth from an infinite perfection, which cannot be fathiomcd by the
short line of man’s understanding. His essence in regard of its dit?
fusion, and in regard of its duration, is incomprehensible, as well as
his action: if God, therefore, had beginning, he could not be
infinite; if not infinite, he did not possess the highest perfection;
because a plerfection might be conceived beyond it. It his being
could fail, e were not perfect; can that deserve the name of the
highest perfection, which is capable of corruption and dissolution?
To be finite and limited, is the greatest irnpcrfection, for it consists
in a denial of being. He could not be the most blessed Being if he
were not always so, and should not forever remain so; and whatso-
ever perfections he had, would be soured by the thoughts, that in
time they would cease, and so could not be pure afieetions, because
not permanent; but “He is blessed from everlasting to everlasting”
(Ps. Xli. 13). Had he a beginning, he could not have all perfection
without limitation; he would have been limited b that which gave
him beginning; that which gave him being wouldy be God, and not
himself, and so more perfect than he: but since God is the most
sovereign perfection, than which nothing can be imagined perfecter
by the most capaeious understanding, He is certainly “eternal ;”
preing infinite, nothing can be added to him, nothing detraeted
om him.
5. God could not be omnipotent, almighty, if he were not eternal.
The title of almighty agrees not with a nature that had a beginning;
whatsoever hath a beginning was once nothing; and when it was
nothing, could act nothing: where there is no being there is no
power. Neither doth the title of almighty agree with a perishing
nature: he can do nothing to urpose, that cannot preserve himself
against the outward force and) violence of enemies, or against the
inward causes of corruption and dissolution. No account is to be
made of man, because “his breath is in his nostrils” (Isa.   22);
could a better account be made of God, if he were of the like con-
dition? He could not properly be almighty, that were not always
mighty; if he be omnipotent, nothing can im air him; he that hath
all ower, can have no hurt. If he doth nihatsoever he pleaseth,
nothing can make him miserable, since misery consists in those
things which happen against our will.” The almightiness and eter-
nity of God are l1nked_ together: “I am Alpha and Omega, the be-
ginning and endin , saith the Lord, which was, and which is, and
which is to come, Sie Almighty” (Rev. i. 8): almighty because eter-
nal, and eternal because almighty.
6. God would not be the first cause of all if he were not eternal;
but he is the first and the last; the first cause of all things, the last
end of all thingszi that which is the first cannot begin to bc; it
were not then the first; it cannot cease to be: whatsoever is dis-
solved, is dissolved into that whereof it doth consist, which was be~
fore it, and then it was not the first. The world might not have
been; it was once nothing; it must have some cause to call it out
of nothing: nothing hath no power to make itself something; them
‘ Voet. Natural. Theol. p. 310. ‘ Rev. i. 8. Ficin. de Immort. lib. ii. IL 8.

