ON 'rim ETERNITY or con. 291
ia superior cause, by whose will and power it comes into being,
and so gives all the creatures their distinct forms! This power can-
not but be eternal ; it must be before the world; the founder must
be before the foundation ; and his existence must be from etemity ;
or we must say nothing did exist from eternity); and if there were
no being from eternity, there could not now an being in time.
What we see, and what we are, must arise from itselyf or some other;
it cannot from itself: if anything made itself, it had a ower to
make itself; it then had an active power before it had a being; it
was something in regard of power, and was nothing in regard of
existence at the same time. Suppose it had a power to produce
itself] this power must be conferre upon it by another; and so the
wer of producing itself; was not from itse f, but from another'
hiit if the power of being was from itself, why did it not produce
itself before? why was it one moment out of bein<1?m If there be
any existence of things, it is necessary that that whigh was the “first
gsuse,” should “exist from eternitgn Whatsoever was the imme-
iate cause of the world, yet the rst and chief cause wherein we
must rest, must have nothing before it; if it had anything before it,
it were not the first; he therefore that is the first cause, must be
without beginning; nothing must be before him; if he had a be-
ginning from some other, he could not be the first principle and
author of all things; if he be the 'first cause of all things, he must
`ve himself a beginning or be from eternity: he could not give
himself a beginning; wliiatsoever begins in time was nothing before,
and when it was nothing, it could o nothing; it could not give
itself anything, for then it gave what it had not, and did what it could
not. If he made himself in time, why did he not make himself be-
fore? what hindered him? It was either because he could not, or
because he would not; if he could not, he always wanted power,
andalways would, unless it were bestowed upon him, and thcn he
could not be said to be from himself If he would not make him-
self before, then he might have made himself when he would : how
had he the power of willing and nilling without a; being? Nothing
cannot will or nill; nothing hath no faculties; so that it is neces-
Sarv to grant some eternal eing, or run into inextricable labyrinths
and mazes. If we deny some eternal being, we must deny all
being; our own being, the being of everything about us; uncon-
Slefvable absurdities will arise. So, tlren, if G05 were the cause of
things, he did exist before all thin , and that from eternit _
_ Ill. Eternity is only proper to God? and not communicablie. It
13 as great a madness to ascribe eternity to the creature, as to deprive
the Lord of the creature of eternity." It is so proper to God, that
when the apostle would prove the deity of Christ, he proves it by his
Emutability and eternity, as well as his creating power: “ Thou art
e same, and thy years shall not fail (Heb. i. 10-12 _ The argu-
ment had not strength, if eternity belonged essential y to any but
God; and therefore he is said only to have “immortality” (1 Tim. vi.
I6): all other things receive their being from him, and can be de-
* Coeeei Sum. 'l’heoL c. 8. 1 Crellius de Deo, c. 18. p. 48.
" Petav. Theol. Dogmat. Tom. I. lib. i. c. 10, 11. ' Bapt

