l
292 cnannocx ON 'rss Arrarnnrrs.
prived of their being by him: all thing? depend on him; he of none:
all other things are like clothes, whic would consume if God pre-
served them not. Immortality is aipprplpgriated to God, i. e. an inde-
pendent immortaliéy. Angels an so have an immortality, but
y donation from od, not by their own essence; de endent upon
their Creator, not necessar in their own nature: God might have
annihilated them after he liiad created them; so that their duration
cannot pro erly be called an eternity, it being extrinsical to them,
and de_pend)ent upon the will of their Creator, by whom they may
be extinguished; it is not an absolute and necessary, but a precarious
immortality. Whatsoever is not God, is temporary; whatsoever is
eternal, is God. It is a contradiction to sa a creature can be eter-
nal; as nothing eternal is created, so nothing created is eternal
What is distinct from the nature of God cannot be eternal, eternity
being the essence of God. Every creature, in the notion of a crea-
ture, Zspeaks a dependence on some cause, and therefore cannot be
etern . As it is repugnant to the nature of God not to be eternal,
so it is repugnant to the nature of a creature to be eternal; for then
a creature would be e ual to the Creator, and the Creator, or the
Cause, would not be becibre the creature, or effect? It would be all
one to admit many gods, as many eternals; and all one to say, God
can be created, as to say a creature can be uncreated, which is to be
eternal.
1. Creation is a producing something from nothing. What was
once nothin , cannot therefore be eternal; not bein was eternal;
therefore itsiein could not be eternal, for it should he then before
it was, and would be something when 'it was nothing. It is the
nature of a creature to be nothing before it was created; what was
nothing before it was, cannot be equal with God in an eternity of
duration.
2. There is no creature but is mutable, therefore not eternal. As
it had a change from nothing to something, so it may be changed
from being to not being. If the creature werenot mutable, it would
be most perfect, and so would not be a creature, but God; for God
only is most perfect. It is as much the essence of a creature to be
mutable, as it is the essence of God to be immutable. Mutability
and eternity are utterly inconsistent. *
3. No creature is infinite, therefore not eternal: to be infinite in
duration is all one as to be infinite in essence. It is as reasonable to
conceive a creature immense, filling all places at once, as eternal,
extended to all ages; because neither can be without infiniteness,
which is the dproperty of the Deity.P A creature may as well be
without boun s o place, as limitations of time.
4. No effect of an intellectual free agent can be equal in duration
to its cause. The productions of natural agents are as ancient often
as themselves; the sun produceth a beam as old in time as itself;
but who ever heard of a piece of wise workmanship as old as the
wise artiiicer? God roduced a creature, not necessarily and natu-
rally, as the sun dotii a beam, but freely, as an intelligent agent.
The sun was not necessary; it might be or not be, according to the
° Lelsius de Perfect. lib. iv. 0. 2. P Ibid.
I

