ON 'rms mnrmrrr or son. 293
pleasure of God. A free act of the will is necessary to precede in
order of trime, as the cause of such effects as are purely voluntaryxl
Those causes that act as soon as they exist act naturally, necessarily,
not freely, and cannot cease from acting. But suppose a creature
might have existed by the will of God from eternity; yet, as some
think, it could not be said absolutely, and in its own nature to be
eternal, because eternity was not of t e essence of it. The creature
could not be its own duration; for though it were from eternity, it
might not have been from eternity, because its existence depended
upon the free will of God, who might have chose whether he would
have created it or no. God only is eternal; “the first and the last,
the beginning and the end ;" who, as he subsisted before any creature
had a being, so he will eternally subsist if all creatures were reduced
to nothin .
IV. Ui 1. Information. If God be of an eternal duration, then
“Christ is God.” Eternity is the propert of God, but it is ascribed
to Christ: “He is before all things” (Col. i. 17), i. c. all created
things; he is therefore no creature, and if no creature, eternal. “All
things were created by him,” both in heaven and in earth, angels, as
well as men, whether they be thrones or dominions (ver. 16). If all
things were his creatures, then he is no creature; if he were, all
things were not created b him, or he must create himself He hath
no diiference of time; for ire is “ the same yesterday, to-da , and for-
ever:"f the same, with the name of God, “I Am," whicli signifies
his eternity. He is no more to»day than he was yesterday, nor will
be any other tomorrow than he is to-day; and therefore Melchizedec,
“whose descent, birth, and death, father ,and mother, beginning and
end of da s, are not upon record, was a type of the existence of
Christ witliout ditference of time; “Having neither beginning of
days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God” (Heb. vii. 3).
The suppression of his birth and death was intended by the Holy
Ghost as a type of the excellency of Christ’s person in regard of his
eternity, and the duration of his charge in regard of his priesthood.
As there was an appearance of an eternity in the su pression of the
mee of Melchisedec, so there is a true eternity in tiie Son of God.
How could the eternity of the Son of God be ex ressed by any re-
semblance so well, as by such a suppression of the beginning and
end of this great rson, different from the custom of the Spirit of
God in the Old Tritament, who often records the generations and
ends of holy menf and why might not this, which was a kind of a
'shadow of eternity, be a representation of the true eternity of Christ,
as well as the restoration of Isaac to his father without death, is said
to be a figure of the resrurection of Christ after a real death ?° Mel-
Chisedec is only mentioned once (without any record of his extrae-
tion) in his appearance to Abraham after his victory, as if he came
from heaven only for that action, and instantly disappeared again,
as if he had been an eternal person. And Christ himself hints his
01m eternity: “I came forth from the Father, and am come into
Q Orellius de Deo. c. 18. p. 43.
' Heb, xiii. 8. Rev. i. 8. “ He which is, and which was, and which is to coma.”
' Mstrmat. in loc.

