294 cnsrmocx ON THE Arrnmurrs.
the world; again I leave the world, and go to the Father” (John xvi.
28). He goes to the Father as he came from the Father; he goes to
the Father “ for everlasting,” so he came from the Father “from
everlasting;” there is the same duration in cdming forth from the
Father, as in returning to the Father. But more plainly: he speaks
of a glory that he “ had with the Father before the world was” \Joh11
xvii. 5), when there was no creature in being. This is an actual
glory, and not only in decree; for a decreed glory believers had, and
why may not every one of them say the same words, “ Father, glo-
rify me with that g ory which I had with thee before the world was,"
if it were only a glory in decree? Nay, it may be said of every man,
he was before the world was, because he was so in decree. Christ
speaks of something peculiar to him, a glory in actual possession
before the world was: “ Glorify me, embrace, honor me as thy Son,
whereas I have now been, in the eyes of the world, handled dis-
acefully as a servant.” If it were only in decree, why is not the
hlie expression used of others in Scripture as well as of Christ?
Vifhy did he not use the same words for his disciples that were then
with him, who had a glory in decree? His eternity is also men-
tioned in the Old Testament: “The Lord ossessed me in the begin-
ning of his way, before his works of old” (Frov. viii. 22). If he were
the work of God, he existed before himself, if he existed before all
the works of God. It is so not properly meant of the essential wis-
dom of God, since the discourse runs in the name of a person; and
several passages there are which belong not so much to the essential
wisdom of God, as ver. 13: “The evil wa and the froward mouth
do I hate,” which belongs rather to the holiness of God, than to the
essential wisdom of God; besides, it is distinguished from Jehovah,
as possessed by him, “ and rejoicing before him.” Yet lainer:
“ Out of thee,” i. e. Bethlehem, “shall he come forth to be iluler in
Israel, whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting,"
n’>== 'urn “from t e ways of eternity” (Mic. v. 2). There are two
goings forth of Christ described, one from Bethlehem, in the days
of his incarnation, and another from eternity. The Holy Ghost
adds, after his prediction of his incarnation, his going out from ever-
lasting, that none should doubt of his deity. If this going out from
everlastingi were only in the purpose of God, it might be said of
David, an of every creature; and in Isa. ix. 6 he is particularly
called the “everlasting” or “eternal Father ;” not the Father in the
Trinity, but a Father to us; yet “ eternal,” the “Father of eternity."
As he is the “mighty God,” so he is “the everlasting Father." Can
such a title be ascribed to any whose being depends upon the will
of another, and may be dashed out at the pleasure of a superior?
As the eternity of God is the ound of all religion, so the eternity
of Christ is the ground of the Christian religion. Could our sins be
perfectly expiated had he not an eternal divinity to answer for the
offences committed against an eternal God? Temporary sufferings
had been of little validity, without an iniiniteness and eternity in his
person to add weight to is passion.
2. If God be eternal, he knows all things as present. All thing!
are present to him in his eternity; for this is the notion of eter-

