ON 'rm-: ETERNITY' or son. 295
nitv, to be without succession! If eternity be one indivisible point,
and is not diilhsed into preceding and succeeding parts, then that
which is known init or by it is perceived without any succession,
for knowledge is as the substance of the person knowing; if that
hath various actions and distinct from itself; then it understands things
in dilfenences of time as time presents them to view. But, since
God’s being depends not upon the revolutions of time, so neither
does his knowledge; it exceeds all motions of years and days, com-
prehends infinite spaces of past and future. God considers all things
in his eternity in one simple knowledge, as if they were now acted
before him: “Known unto God are all his works from the begin-
ning of the world;" dn' wlG»w»;, ai seculo, “from eternity” (Acts xv.
18). God's knowledge is oo-eternal with him; if he knows that in
time which he did not not know from' eternity, he would not be
eternally perfect, since knowledge is the perfection of an intelligent
Datllre.
3. How bold and foolish is it for a mortal creature to censure the
counsels and actions of an eternal God, or be too curious in his inqui-
sitionsl It is by the consideration of the unsearchable number of
the years of God that Elihu checks too bold inquiries: “who hath
enjoined him his way, or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity?
Behold, God is great, and we know him not; neither can the num-
ber of his years be searched out.”“ Etemity sets God above our in-
quiries and censures. Infants of a day old are not able to under-
stand the acts of wise and gray heads: shall we, that are of so short
a being and understanding as yesterday, presume to measure the mo-
tions of etemity by our scanty intellects? We that cannot foresee an
unexpected accident which falls in to blast a well-laid design, and run a
ship many leagues back from the intended harbor; we cannot under-
stand the reason of thinvs we see done in time, the motions of the sea,
the generation of rain, the nature of light, the sympathies and antipa-
thies of the creatures; and shall we dare to censure the actions of
an eternal God, so infinitely beyond our reach? The counsels of a
boundless being are not to be scanned by the brain of a silly worm,
that hath breathed but a few minutes in the world. Since eternity
cannot be comprehended in time, it is not to be judged by a crea-
ture of time: “ Let us remember to magnify his works which we be-
hold,” because he is eternal, which is the exhortation of Elihu, backed
by this doctrine of God’s eternity (Job xxxvi. 24), and not accuse
any work of him who is the “ Ancient of Days,” or presume to direct
him of whose eternity we come infinitely short. \Vhenever, there-
fore, any unworthy notion of the counsels and works of God is sug-
gested to us by Satan, or our own corrupt hearts, let us look back-
ward to (}od’s eternal and our own short duration, and silence
ourselves with the same question wherewith God put a stodp to the
reasoning of Job-“ Where wast thou when I laid the foun ations of
the earth ?" (Job xxxviii. 4), and reprove ourselves for our curiosity,
since we are of so short a standing, and were nothing when the
eternal God laid the first stone of the world.
4. What a folly and boldness is there in sin, since an eternal God
- * Petav. ' Job xxxvi. 26, compared with ver- 28.

