296 cnsnnocx ON rms: A'I.'1‘RIBUTE8
is offended thereby l All sin is aggravated by God’s eternity. The
blackness of the heathen idolatry was in changing the glory of the
incorruptible God (Rom. i. 23); erecting resemblances of him con-
trary to his immortal nature; as if the eternal God, whose life is as
unlimited as eternity, were like those creatures whose beings are
measured by the short ell of time, which are of a corruptible na-
ture, and daily passing on to corruption; they could not really de-
rive God of his glory and immortality, but they did in estimation.
iI‘here is in the nature of every sin a tendency to reduce God to a
not being. He that thinks unworthily of God, or acts unworthily
towards him, doth (as much as in him lies) sully and destroy these
two perfections of his, immutability and eternity. It is a carriage,
as if he were as contemptible as a creature that were but of “yester-
day, and shall not remain in being to-morrow. He that wo d put
an end to God’s glory by darkening it, would put an end to God’s
life by destroying it. He that should love a beast with as great an
affection ashe loves a man, contemns a rational nature; and he that
loves a perishing thing with the same affection he should love an
everlasting God, contemns his eternity; he debaseth the duration of
God below that of the world. The low valuation of God speaks
him in his esteem no better than withering grass, or a gourd, which
lasts for a night; and the creature which ossesses his affection, to
be a good that lasts forever. How foolish, then, is every sin that
tends to destroya being that cannot destroy or desert himself; a
Being, without whose eternity the sinner himself could not have
had the ca acit of a being to aE1°ont him I How base is that which
would notllet the works of God remain in their established posture!
How much more base is not enduring the fountain and glory of all
beings, that would not only put an end to the beauty of the world,
but the eternity of God!
5. How dreadful is it to lie under the stroke of an eternal God I His
eternity is as great a terror to him that hates him, as it is a comfort to
him that loves him; because he is the “living God, an everlasting
king, the nations shall not be able to abide his indignation” (Jer. x.
10). Though God be least in their thoughts, and is made light of
in the world, yet the thoughts of God’s eternity, when he _comes to
judge the world, shall make the slighters of him tremble. That the
Judge and punisher lives forever, is the greatest grievance to a soul
in misery, and adds an inconceivable weight to it, above what the
infiniteness of God’s executive power could do without that dura-
tion. His eternity makes the punishment more dreadiiil than his
power; his power makes it sharp, but his eternit renders it perpet-
ual; everto endure, is the sting at the end oi? every lash. And
how sad is it to think that God lays his eternity to pawn for the pun-
ishment of obstinate sinners, and engageth it by an oath, that he
will “ whet his glittering sword,” that his “hand shall take hold of
judgment,” that he will “render vengeance to his enemies, and 8
reward to them that hate him ;” a reward proportioned to the greatf
ness of their offences, and the glory of an eternal Godl “ I lift up
my hand to heaven, and say, I live forever ;” (Deut. xxxii. 40, 41):
i. e., as surely as I live forever, I will whet my glittering sword.

