_ ON rm: E'rnnNrrY or con. 297
Asnone can convey good with a perpetuity, so none can convey
evil with such a lastingness as God. It is a great loss to lose a
ship richly fraught in the bottom of the sea, never to be cast upon
the shore; but how much greater is it to lose eternally a sovereign
God, which we were capable of eternally enjoying, and undergo
an evil as durable as that God we slighted, and were in a possibility
of avoiding! The miseries of men after this life are not eased, but
shagpened, by the life and eternity of God.
se 2. Of comfort. What foundation of comfort can we have in
any of God’s attributes, were it not for his iniinitenew and eter-
nity, though he be “ merciful, good, wise, faithful?" What support
could there be, if they were perfections belonging to a corruptible
God? What hopes of a resurrection to happiness can we have, or
of the duration of it, if that God that promised it were not immor-
tal to continue it, as well as powerful to effect it? His power were
not Almighty, if his duration were not eternal.
1. If God be eternal, his covenant will be so. It isfounded u on
the eternity of God; the oath whereby he connrms it, is by his life.
Since there is none greater than himself, he swears by himself (Heb.
vi. ld), or by his own li.fe, which he engagleth together with his eter-
nity or the full performance; so that if e lives forever, the cov-
enant shall not be disannulled; it is an “immutable counsel” (ver.
16, 17). The immutabilit of his counsel follows the immutability
of his nature. Immutability and eternity go hand in hand together.
The promise of eternal life is as ancient as God himself in regard
of the urpose of the promise, or in regard of the pgomise made to
Christ ibr us. “Eternal life which Go promised fore the world
began.” (Tit. i. 2): As it hath an ante-eternity, so it hath a postf
eternity; therefore the gospel, which is the new covenant published,
is termed the “ everlasting os el” (Rev. xiv. (2, which can no more
be altered and perish, than god) can change an vanish into nothing;
he can as little morally deny his truth, as he can naturally desert
his life. The covenant is there represented in a green color, to note
its perpetual verdure; the rainbow, the emblem of the covenant
“about the throne, was like to an emerald” Sltev. iv. 3), a stone of a
green color, whereas the natural rainbow hat many co ors; this but
one, to signif its eternity.
2. If God life eternal, he being our God in covenant, is an eternal
good and possession. “This God is our God forever and ever” (Ps.
xlviii. ll): “He is a dwelling-place in all generations." We shall
traverse the world awhile, and then arrive at the blessings Jacob
wished for Joseph, “the blessings of the everlasting hills” (Gen.
Xlix. 26). If an estate of a thousand pound per annum render a
mau’s life comfortable for a short term, how much more may -the soul
heswallowed up with joy in the enjoyment of the Creator, whose
ifears never fail, who lives forever to be en'oyed, and can keep us in
e forever to enjoy him! Death, indeed, will seize upon us by
(i0d’s irreversible order, but the immortal Creator will make him
disgorge his morsel, and land us in a glorious immortality; our souls
at their dissolution, and our bodies at the resurrection, after which
they shall remain forever, and employ the extent of that boundless

