298 crrsnnocx ON rm: Arrnrsurrs. _
eternity, in the fruition of the sovereign and eternal God; for it is
impossible that the believer, who is united to the immortal God that
fis rom everlasting to everlasting, can ever perish; for being in con;
junction with him who is an ever-flowing fountain of life, he cannot
suffer him to remain in the jaws of death. While God is eternal,
and always the same, it is not possible that those that artake of his
spiritual ife, should not also partake of his eternal. lt is from the
consideration of the endlessness of the ears of God that the church
comforts herself that “her children shall continue, and their seed be
established forever" (Ps. cii. 27, 28). And from the eternity of God
Habakkuk (cha . i. 12) concludes the eternity of believers, “ Art not
thou from everlasting, O Lord, my God, my Holy One? we shall
not die, O Lord.” After they are retired from this world, they shall
live forever with God, without any change by the multitude of those
imaginable years and ages that shall run-forever. It is that God that
hath neither beginnin nor end, that is our God; who hath not only
immortality in himself? but immortality to give out to others. As
he hath “ abundance of spirit” to quicken them (Mal. ii. 15), so he
hath abundance of immortality to continue them. It is only in the
consideration of this a man can with wisdom say, “ Soul, take thy
ease; thou hast goods laid up for many years” (Luke xii. 19, 20):
to say it of any other possession is the greatest folly in the judgment
of our Saviour. “ Mortality shall be swallowed up of immortality ;"
“ rivers of pleasure” shall be “for evermore.” Death is a. word
never spoken there by any; never heard by any in that ossewion
of eternity ; it is forever put out as one of Christ’s conquered] enemies.
The hap iness depends upon the resence of God, with whom be-
lievers shall be forever present. Happiness cannot perish as long as
God lives ; he is the first and the last ; the first of all delights, nothing
before him; the last of all pleasures, nothing beyond him; a para-
dise of delights in ever omt, without a flaming sword.
3. The enjoyment ofyfipod will be as fresh and glorious after many
ages, as it was at first. God is eternal, and eternity knows no
c ange; there will then be the fullest possession without anjydecay
in the object enjoyed. There can be nothing past, nothing future;
time neither adds to it, nor detracts from it; that infinite fulness of
perfection which flourisheth in him now, will flourish eternally,
without any discoloring of it in the least, by those innumerable ages
that shall run to eternity, much less any despoiling him of them:
“He is the same in his endless duration” (Ps. cii. 27). As God is so
will the eternity of him be, without succession, without division; the
fulness of joy will be always present; without ast to be thought of
with regret for being gone; without future to he expected with tor~
menting desires. When we enjoy God, we enjoy him in his eternity
without any iiux; an entire possession of all together, without the
passing away of pleasures that may be wished to return, or expecta-
tion o future joys which might be desired to hasten. Time is tluid,
but eternigy is stable; and after man ages, the joys will be as
BZIVOIEI an satisfying as if they had been but that moment first
taste by' our hung; appetites. When the glory of the Lord shall
rise upon you, it s 1 be so far from ever setting, that after millions

