ON 'run E'rERNrr'Y or con. 299
of years are expired, as numerous as the sands on the sea-shore, the
sun, in the light of whose countenance 'ou shall live, shall be as
bright as at the first appearance; he will be so far from ceasing to
flow, that he will flow as strong, as full, as at the first communication
of himself in glory to the creature. God, therefore, as sitting upon
his thmne of grace, and acting according to his covenant, is like a
jasper-stone, which is of a green color, a color always delightful
(Rev. iv. 3); because God is a wa s vigorous and flourishing ; a pure
act of life, sparkling new and fiiesli rays of life and light to the
creature, flourishing with a perpetual spring, and contenting the most
capaeious desire; forming our interest, pleasure, and satisfaction;
with an infinite variety, without any change or succession; he Will
have variety to increase delights, and eternity to per ietuate them;
this will be the fruit of the enjoyment of an infinite and eternal God:
he is not a cistern, but a fountain, wherein water is always living,
and never utreiies.
4. lfGr.-S be eternal, here is a strong ground of comfort against
all the distresses of the church, and the threats of the church’s ene-
mies. God’s abiding forever is the lea Jeremy makes for his return
to his forsaken church: “ Thou, (5) Lord, remainest forever; th
throne from generation to generation” (Lam. v. 19, 20). The chiucli
is weak; created things are easily cut off; what prop is there, but
that God that lives forever ? What, though J ernsalem lost its bulwarks,
the temple were dcfaeed, the land Wasted; yet the God of Jerusalem
sits upon an eternal throne, and from everlasting to everlasting there
is no diminution of his power. The prophet intimates in this com-
plaint, that it is not agreeable to God’s eternity to forget his people,
to whom he hath from eternity borne good-will. In the greatest
confusions, the ehurch’s eyes are to be fixed upon the eternity of
Gods throne, where he sits as governor of the world. No creature
can take any comfort in this perfection, but the church ; other crea-
tures depend upon God, but the church is united to him. The iirst
discovery ofthe name “I am,” which signifies the divine eternity,
as well as imrnutability, was for the comfort of the “oppressed
Israelites in Egypt” (Exod. iii. 14, 15): it was then published from
the secret place of the Almighty, as the only strong cordial to re-
fresh them: it hath not yet, it shall not ever lose its virtue in anly
ef the miseries that have, or shall successively befall the church. t
is a comfort as durable as the God whose name it is; he is still “I
Am ;” and the same to the church, as he was then to his Israel.
His spiritual Israel have a reater right to the glories of it, than the
carnal Israel could have. T10 oppression can be greater than theirs ;
what was it comfort suited to that distress, hath the same suitableness
to every other oppression. It was not a temporary name, but a name
forever; his “memorial to all generations’ (ver. 15), and reachetli
tothe church of the Gentiles with whom he treats as the God of
Ahraharn; ratifying that covenant by the Messiah, which he made
with Abraham, the father of the faithful. The church’s enemies are
Bette be feared; they may spring as the grass, but soon after do
wither b ' their own inward princi les of deca , or are cut down by
the hand, of God (Ps. xcii. 7-9). ll‘hey may lie instruments of the

