""'l
\
800 cmumocx ON 'rnn A'r'rn1BU'rr:s.
anger of God, but “ they shall be scattered as the workers of iniquity
by the hand of the Lord, that is high for evermore” (ver. 8), and is
engaged by his promise, to preserve a church in the world. Thcy
may threaten, but their breath may vanish as soon as their threaten-
ings are pronounced; for they carry their breath in no s\1rer a place
than their own nostrils, upon which the eternal God can put his
hand, and sink them with all their rage. Do the prophets and in-
structers of the church “live forever" (Zech. i. 5)\? No : shall, then,
the adversaries and disturbers of the church 've forever? They
shall vanish as a shadow; their bein depends upon the eternal God
of the faithful, and the everlasting Judgle of the wicked. He that
inhabits eternity is above them that in abit mortality; and must,
whether they will or no, “ say. to corruption, Thou art my father,
and to the worm, Thou art my mother, and my sister” (Job xvii. 14.)
When they will act with a confidence, as if they were livin f gods,
he will not be mated; but evidence himself to be a living God, above
them. Why, then, should mortal men be ‘feared in their frow
when an immortal God hath promised protection in his word, aiiil
lives forever to perform it? `
5. Hence follows another comfort; since God is eternal, he hath
as much power as will to be as good as his word. His promises are
established upon his eternity; and his perfection is a main ground
of trust; “Trust in the Lord forever: for in the Lord Jehovah is
everlastin strength” (Isa. Xxvi. 4). :ro 51: -mx mn-» rw: His name
is doubled; that name, Jah and Jehovah, which was always the
strength of his people; and not a single one, but the strength or
rock of eternities: not a failing, but an eternal truth and power;
that as his strength is etemal, so our trust in him should imitate his
eternity in its peipetuity; and therefore in the despondency of his
people, as if God ad forgot his promises, and made no account of
them, or his word, and were weary of doing good, he calls them to
reflect on what they had heard of his eternity, which is attended
with immutability, who hath an intiniteness of power to rform
his will, and an infdniteness of understanding to jud e of th); right
seasons of it. His wisdom, will, truth, have always ieen, and will
to eternity be the same (Isa. xl. 27, 28). He wants not life, any more
than love, forever to help us; since his word is past, he will never
fail us; since his lite continues, he can never be out of a capacity to
relieve us; and, therefore, whenever we foolishly charge him by our
distrustful thoughts, we forget his love, which made the promise, and
his eternal life, which can accomplish it. As his word is the bottom
of our trust, and his truth is the assurance of his sincerity, so his
eternity is the assurance of his ability to perform: “His word stands
forever” (ver 8). A man may be my friend this day, and be in an-
other world to-morrow; and though he be never so sincere in his
word, yet death snaps his life asunder, and 'forbids the execution.
But as God cannot 'e, so he cannot lie; because he is the eternity
of Israel: “The strength of Israel will not lie, nor repent,” nz:
perpetuity, or eternity of Israel (1 Sam. xv. 29). Eternity implies
immutability; we could have no ground for our hopes, if we knew
him not to be longer lived than oiuselves. The Psalmist beat!

