ON run Ernanrrr or con. 301
off our hands from trust in men, “because their breath goes forth,
they return to their earth, and in that day their thoughts perish’
(Ps. cxlvi. 3, 4). And if the God of Jacob were like them, what hap-
piness could we have in making him our help? As his sovereignty
in giving precepts had not been a strong ground of obedience, without
considering him as an eternal lawgiver, who could maintain his
rights; so his kindness in making the promises had not been a strong
ground of confidence, without considering him as an eternal promiser,
whose thoughts and whose life can never perish! And this may
be one reason why the Holy Ghost mentions so often the post-eternity
of God, and so little his ante-eternity; because that is t e strongest
foundation of our faith and hope, which respects chiefly that which
is future, and not that which is past; yet, indeed, no assurance of
his after-et/ernity can be had, if his ante-eternit be not certain. If
he had a beginning, he may have an end; and, if he had a change
in his nature, he might have in his counsels; but since all the resolves
of God are as himself is, eternal, and all the promises of God are
the fruits of his counsel, therefore they cannot be changed; if he
should change them for the better, he would not have been eternally
wise, toknow what was best; if for the worse, he had not been
eternall good or just. Men may break their promises, because they
are made without foresight; but God, that inhabits eternity, fore-
knows all things that shall be done under the sun, as if they had
been then acting before him; and nothing can intervene, or work a
change in his resolves; because the least circumstances were eternally
foreseen by him. Though there may be variations, and changes to our
sight, the wind may tack about, and every hour new and cross acci-
dents happen; yet the eternal God, who is eternally true to his
word, sits at the helm, and the winds and the waves obey him. And
though he should defer his romise a thousand years, yet he is “not
slack’ (2 Pet.   8, 9); for he defers it but a day to his eternity: and
who would not with comfort stay a day in expectation of a consid-
erable advantage?
Use 3. For exhortation. 1. To something which concerns us in
ourselves; 2. To something which concerns us, with respect to God.
1. To something which concerns us in ourselves.
(1.) Let us be deeply affected with our sins long since committed
Though they are past with us, they are, in regard of God’s eternity,
present with him; there is no succession in eternity, as there is m
time. All things are before God at once; our sins are before him,
as if committed this moment, though committed long ago. As he is
what he is in re rd of duration, so he knows what he knows in re-
Ezrd of knowleie. As he is not more than he was, nor shall not
any more than he is, so he always knew what he knows, and shall
not cease to know what he now knows. .As himself, so his knowledge,
is one indivisible point of eternit . He knows nothing but what he
did know from eternity; he shall’ know no more for the future than
he now knows. Our sins being present with him in his eternity, should
be present with us in our regard of remembrance of them, and sorrow
for them. What though many years are lapsed, much time run out,
' 1 Orellius de Deo, e. 18, p. 44, 45.

