-ill-1
802 cnarmocx ON rm: Arrnrnumzs.
and our iniquities almost blotted out of our memory; yet since a
thousand years are, in God’s sight, and in regard of his eternity, but
as a day-“ A thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday,
when it is past, and as a watch in the ni ht” (Ps. xc. 4)-they are
before him. For suppose a man were as odd as the world, above Eve
thousand six hundred years; the sins committed five thousand veais
ago, are, according to that rule, but as if they were committed tive
days ago; so that sixty-two years are but as an hour and a half;
and the sins committed forty years since as if they were committed
but this present hour. But if we will go further, and consider them
but as a watch of the night, about three hours (for the night, con-
sisting of twelve hours, was divided into set watches), then~a thou-
sand years are but as three hours in the sight of God; and then sins
committed sixty years ago are but as if they were committed within
this 'dve minutes. Let none of us set lig t by the iniquities com-
mitted many years ago, and imagine that length of time can wipe
out their guilt. No: let us consider them in relation to God’s eter-
nityiland excite an inward remorse, as if they had been but the birth
of t is moment.
(2.) Let the consideration of God’s eternity abate our pride. This
is the design of the verses following the text: the eternity of God
being so sufficient to make us understand our own nothingness, which
ought to be one great end of man, especially as fallen. The eternity
of God should make us as much discsteem ourselves, as the excellency
of God made Job abhor himself (Job xlii. 5, 6 _ His excellency
should humble us under a sense of our vanity, an his etcrnit under
a sense of the shortness of our duration. If man compares himself
with other creatures, he may be too sensible of his greatness; but if
lbie compares himself with God, he cannot but be sensible of his
ascness.
lst. In regard of our impotence to comprehend this eternity of
God. How little do we know, how little can we know, of God’s
eternity! VVe cannot fully conceive it, much less express it; we
have but a brutish understanding in all those things, as Agur said
of himself (Prev. xxx. 7). \\'hat is infinite and eternal, cannot be
comprehended by finite and temporary creatures; if it could, it would
not e infinite and eternal ;Y for to know a thing, is to know the ex-
tent and cause of it. It is repugnant to eternity to be known, be-
cause it hath no limits, no causes; the most soaring understanding
cannot have a proportionable understanding of it. \Vhat dispropor-
tion is there between a drop of water and the sea in their greatness
and rnotion; yet by a drop we may arrive to a knowledge of the
nature of the sea, which is a mass of drops joined together; but the
longest duration of times cannot make us know what eternity is,
because there is no proportion between time and eternity. The years
of God are as niunberless as his thoughts (Ps. xl. 5), and our minds
as fhr from reckoning the one as the other. If our understandings am
too gross to comprehend the majesty of his infinite works, they are
much more too s ort to comprehend the infiniteness of his eternity.
I Charrontrois. Vznt. liv. i. c 5, p. 17, &c.

