ON' THE ETERNITY OF GOD. 303
2d. In regard of the vast disproportion of our duration to this
duration of God.
[L] We have more of nothing than being. We were nothing
from an unbegun eternity, and we might have been nothing to an
endless eternity, had not God called us into being; and if he please
we may be nothing by as short an annihilating word, as we were
something b a creating word. As it is the prerogative of God to
be, “I am that I am ;" so it is the pro ert of a creature to be, “I
am not what I am ;" I am not by myseii wliyat I am, but by the indul-
gence of another. I was nothing formerly; I may be nothing again,
unless he that is “I Arn” make me to subsist what I now am. hlioth-
ing is as much the title of the creature as being is the title of God.
Nothing is so holy as God, because nothing hath being as God:
“There is none holy as the Lord, for there is none besides thee”
(1 Sam. ii. 2). Man’s life is an image, a dream, which are next to
nothing; and if compared with God, worse than nothing; a nullity
as well as a. vanit , because “ with God only is the fountain of life"
gPs. xxxvi. 9). 'Ihe creature is but a drop of life from him, depen-
| ent on him : a drop of water is a nothing if compared with the vast
contiux of waters and numberless drops in the ocean. How unwor-
thy is it for dust and ashes, kneaded together in time, to strut against
the Father of eternity! Much more unworthy for that which is
nothing, worse than nothing, to quarrel with that which is only being,
and equal himself with Him that inhabits eternity.
Ph] What being we have had a beginning. After an unaccount-
abe eternity was run out, in the veriy .dregs of time, a few years
ago we were created, and made of the asest and vilest dross of the
world, the slime and dust of the earth; made of that wherewith
birds build their nests; made of that which creeping things make
their habitation, and beasts trample upon. How monstrous is pride
in such a creature, to aspire, as if he were the Father of eternity,
and as etemal as God, and so his own eternity!
[3.] What being we have is but of a short duration in regard of
our life in this world. Our life is in a constant change and flux;
we remain not the same an entire day; youth uickly succeeds
childhood, and age as speedily treads upon theqheels of Youth;
there is a continual defluxion of minutes, as there is of sands in a
glass. He is as a watch wound up at the beginning of his life,
and from that time is running down, till he comes to the bottom;
goine part of our lives is cut off every day, every minute. Life
is but a moment: what is ast cannot be recalled, what is fu-
ture cannot be ensured. Il' we enjoy this moment, we have
lost that which is ast, and shall presently lose this by the next
that is to come. '1Phe short duration of men is set out in Scrip-
ture by such creatures as soon disappear: a worm (Job xxv. 6),
that can scarce outlive a winter; grass, that Withers by the sum-
mer sun. Life is a "flower," soon withering (Job xiv. 2); a
“ vapor,” soon vanishing (James iv. 14); a “smoke,” soon dis-
appearing (Ps. cii. 3). The stron est man is but compacted dust;
e thbric must moulder; the higiiest mountain falls and comes to
naught. Time gives place to eternity; we live now, and die to

