* ‘]
304 cnsmrocx ON THE A'1'rnrBU'rEs.
morrow. Not a man since the world began ever lived a day in
God’s sight; for no man ever lived a thousand years. The longest
day of an rnan’s life never amounted to twenty-four hours in the
account ofy _divine eternity: a life of so many hundred yea1°s, with
the addition “he died," makes u the greatest part of the history
of the atriarchs (Gen. v.); andp since the life of man hath been
curtailed), if any be in the world eighty years, he scarce properly
lives sixty of them, since the fourth part of time is at least consumed
in sleep. A greater difference there is between the .duration of
God and that of a creature, than between the life of one for a
minute, and the life of one that should live as many years as the
whole globe of heaven and earth, if changed into papers, could
contain figures. And this life, though but of a short duration ac-
cording to the period God hath determined, is easily cut off; the
treasure of life is deposited in a brittle vessel. A small stone hit-
ting against Nebuchadnezzar’s statue will tumble it down into a
poor and nasty grave; a grape-stone, the bone of a. fish, a small ily
in the throat, a moist damp, are enough to destroy an earthly eter-
nity, and reduce it to nothing. What a nothing, then, is our short-
ness, if compared with God’s eternity; our frai ty, with God’s dura-
tion! How humble, then, should perishing creatures be before an
eternal God, with whom “our days are as a hand’s breadth, and
our age as nothing I” (Ps. xxxix. 5.) The an els, that have been
of as long a duration as heaven and earth, tremile before him; the
heavens melt at his presence; and shall we, that are but of yester-
daly, approach a divine eternity with unhumbled souls, and offer the
ca ves of our lips with the pride of devils, and stand upon our
terms with him, without falling upon our fhces, with a sense that we
are but dust and ashes, and creatures of time? How easy is it to
reason out man’s humility! but how hard is it to reason man into itl
(3.) Let the consideration of God’s eternity take off o1u° love and
confidence from the world, and the things .thereof The eternity
of God reproaches a pursuit of the world, as preferring a momen-
tary dpleasure before an everlasting God; as though a temporal
worl could be a better su ply t an a God whose years never
fail. Alas! what is this eartlh men are so greedy ot, and will get,
though by blood and sweat? What is this whole earth, if we had
the entire possession of it, if compared with the vast heavens, the
seat of angels and blessed spirits? It is but as an atom to the
greatest mountain, or as a dro of <¥W to the immense ocean. How
foolish is it to prefer a drop befor the sea., or an atom before the
world! The earth is but a point to the sun; the sun with its whole
orb, but a little art of the heavens if compared with the whole
fabric. If a manlliad the possession of allthose, there could be no
comparison between those that have had a beinning, and shall have
an end, and God who is without either of t em. Yet how many
are there that make nothing of the divine eternity, and imagine an
eternity of nothinc!
[L] The world ,hath been but of a short standing. It is not yet
six thousand years since the foundations of it were laid, and there-
fore it cannot have a boundless excellency, as that God, who hath

