ON 'rim ETERNITY or son. __ 305
been from everlasting, doth pomess. If Adam had lived to this
day, and been as absolute lor of his posterity, as he was of the
other creatures, had it been a competent object to take up his heart?
had he not been a madman, to have preferred this little created
pleasure before an everlasting uncreate God? a thing that had a
epepdent beginning, before that which had an independent eter-
nity
[2.] The beauties of the world are transitory and perisliing.
The whole world is nothing else but a fluid thing; the fashion of
it is a pageantry, “passing away” (1 Cor. vii. 31): though the
glories of it mig t be conceived greater than they are, yet they
are not consistent, but transient; there cannot be an entire enjoy-
ment of them, because they grow up and expire every moment, and
slip away between our fingers while we are using them. Have we
not heard of God’s dispersing the greatest empires like “chaff
before a whirlwind,” or as “smoke out of a ch1mney”(Hos. xiii.
3); which, though it appears as a compacted cloud, as if it would
c oke the sun, is quickly scattered into several parts of the a.ir, and
becomes invisible? Nettles have often been heirs to stately pala-
ces, as God threatens Israel (Hoa. ix. 6). We cannot promise our-
selves over night anything the next day. A kingdom with the
glory of a throne may be cut oif in a morning (Hos. x. 15). The
new wine may be taken from the mouth when the 'vintage is ripe;
the devouring locust may snatch away both the hopes of that and
the harvest (?oel i. 15); the are, therefore, things which are not,
and nothing cannot be a fit olyiject for confidence or affection; “ VVilt
thou set thy eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly
make themselves wings” (Prov. xxiii. 5). They are not properly
beings, because they are not stable, but Hitting. They are not,
because they may not be the next moment to us what they are this:
they are but cisterns, not springs, and broken cisterns, not sound and
stable; no solidity in their substance, nor stability in their duration.
What a foolish thing is it then, to refer a. transient felicity, a mere
nullity, before an eternal God! &hat a senseless thing would it
be in a man to prefer the map of a kingdom, which the hand of
a child can tear in pieces, before the kin dom shadowed by itl
How much more inexcusablc is it to value éiingis, that are so far
from being eternal, that they are not so muc as dusky resem-
blances of an eternity. Were the things of the world more lori-
ons than they are, yet they are but as a counterfeit sun in a cloud,
which comes short of the true sun in the heavens, both in glory'
and duration; and to esteem them before God, is inconceivably
boser, than if a man should value a party-colored bubble in the air,
before a durable rock of diamonds. The comforts of this world
are as candles, that will end in a snuff; whereas the felicity that
flows from an eternal God, is like the sun, that shines more and
more to a. perfect day. ' -
[3.] They cannot therefore be fit for a soul, which was made to
have an interest in God’s eternity. The soul being of a perpetual
nature, was made for the fruition of an eternal good; without such
A good it can never be perfect. Perfection that noble thing, riseth
vol.. I.-20

