'i""‘y
806 cmnnocx ON rua ATTRIBUTES.
not from anything in this world, nor is a title due to a soul while
in this world; it is then they are said to be made perfect, when
fthey arrive at that entire conjunction with the eternal God in
another life (Help. iii. 23). The soul canngt the epinoblml by an
acquaintance wit t ese thin , or establishe a e ndenee on
them; they cannot confer \vli;§t a rational naturi; sho\§d desire, or
supply it with what it wants. The soul hath a. resemblance to God
in a post-eternity; why should it be drawn aside by the blandish-
ments of earthly things, to neglect its true establishment, and lackey
after the body, which is but the shadow of the soul, and was
made to follow it and serve it? But while it busieth itself alto-
gether in the concerns of a. perishing body, and seeks satisfaction
in things that glide away, it becomes rather a. body than soul,
descends below its nature, reproacheth that God who hath imprinted
upon it an image of his own eternit , and loseth the comfort of
the everlastingness of its Creator. Hiow shall the wholc world, if
our lives were as durable as that, be a happy eternity to us, who
have souls that shall survive all the delights of it, which must fry
in those flames that shag Ere th; whole frame of nature at the
eneral conflagration of t e world 2 Pet. iii. 10.
g [4.] Therefore let us provide for a(happy intercsit in the eternity
of God. Man is made for an eternal state. The soul hath such a
perfection in its nature, that it is tit for eternity, and cannot display
all its operations but in eternity. To an eternity it must go, and
live as long as God himself lives. Things of a short duration are
nlpt propprtionegéo a }s;pul_ made for an etleriépf continuancig to see
t at it e a co orta e eternit f, is wort our care. can is a.
forecasting creature, and consicfers not only the piresent, but the
future too, in his provisions for his family; and s all he disgrace
his nature in casting oif all consideration of a future eternity ? Get
possession, therefore, of the eternal God. “A portion in this life" is
the lot of those who shall be forever miserable (Ps. xvii. 14). But
God, “an everlasting portion,” is the lot of them that are designed
for happiness. “God is my ortion forever” (Ps. lxxiii. 26). “Time
is short’ (1 Cor.   29). The whole time for which God designed
this building of the world, is of a little compass; it is a stage erected
for rational creatures to act their parts upon for a few thousand
years; the greatest part of which time is run out; and then shall
time, like a rivulet, fall into the sea of eternity, from whence it
sprung. As time is but a slip of eternity, so it will end in eternity;
our advantages consist in the present instant; what is past never
géomised a return, and cannot be fetched back by all our vows.
hat is future, we cannot promise ourselves to enjoy; we maygjlg
snatched awa before it comes. Eve minute that asseth, s ,e
the fewer reiiiaining, till the time olfydeath; and asl) we are ieivery
hour further from our beginning, we are nearer our end. The child
born this daj grows up, to grow nothing at last. In all ages there is
“but a ste between us and death,” as David said of himself (1 Sam.
xx. 3). The little time that remains for the devil till the day of judg;
ment, envenoms his wrath; he rageth, because “his time is short
(Bev. xii. 12). The little time that remains between this moment
...J

