L
ON mn ETERNITY or son. 307
and our death, should quicken our diligence to inherit the endless’
and unchangeable eternity of God.
gi] Often meditate on the eternity of God. The holiness, ower
an eternity of God, are the fundamental articles of all religion,
upon which the whole body of it leans; his holiness for conformity
tohim, his power and eternity for the support of faith and hope.
The suong and incessant cries of the four easts, representing that
christian church, are “Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which
was, and is, and is to come” (Rev. iv. 8). Though his power is inti-
mated, yet the chiefest are his holiness, three times expressed; and
his eternity which is repeated, “who lives forever and ever” (ver. 9).
This ought to be the constant practice in the church of the Gentiles,
which this book chiefly respects; the meditation of his converting
grace manifested to Paul, ravished the apostle’s heart; but not with~
out the triumphant consideration of his immortality and eternity,
which are the principal arts of the doxology: “Now unto the King
eternal, immortal, invisihle, the only wise God, be honor and glory
forever and ever" (1 Tim. i. 15-17). It could be no great trans rt
to the s irit, to consider him g orious without considering  
immortal? The unconfinedness of his perfections in regard of time,
Earesents the soul with matter of the greatest complacency. The
ppiness of our souls depends upon his other attributes, but the
perpetuity of it uplon his eternity. Is it a comfort to view his
lmmense wisdom; is overflowing goodness; his tender mercy; his
unerring truth? What comfort were there in any of those, if it
were a wisdom that could be baffled; a. goodness that could be
damped; a merc that can expire; and a. truth that can perish with
the subject of itfy Without eternity, what were all his other perfec-
UODS, but as glorious, yet withering flowers; a great, but a decayin
beauty? By a. frequent meditation of God’s eternity, we should
become more sensible of our own vanity and the world s trifiingness;
how nothing should ourselves; how nothing would all other things
lppmr in our eyes! how coldly should we desire them! how feebly
would we place any trust in them! Should we not think ourselves
worthy of contempt to dote upon a perishing glory, to expect sup-
P0rt from an arm of flesh, when there is an eternal beauty to ravish
IB, an eternal arm to protect us? Asaph, when he considered God
“A £rtion forever,” thought nothing of the glories of the earth, or
The uties of the created heavens, worth his a petite or complacency,
b1l2“God” SPS. lxxiii. 25, 26). Besides, an elevated frame of heart
fit the consi eration of Grod’s eternity, would batter down the strong-
nolds and engines of any temptation: a slight tern tation will not
know where to find and catch hold of a soul high and) hid in a medi-
tation of it; and if it doth, there will not be wanting from hence
preservatives to resist and conquer it. What transitory leasures
Will not the thoughts of God’s eternity stifle? When this work
bllileth a soul, it is too great to suffer it to descend, to listen to a
llwveless errand from hell or the world. The yvanton allurements
ofthe flesh will be put off with indignation. The proffers of the
world will be ridiculous when they are cast into the balance with
the eternity of God, which sticking in our thoughts, we shall not be
:- :~f‘.E:   I.;  _

