'808 cnnarrocx on 'rim arrnrsnrns.
B0 easy a prey for the fowler’s gin. Let us, therefore, often meditate
upon this, but not in a bare speculation, without engagingl om- aifeo-
tions, and making every notion of the divine eternity en in a suit
able impression upon our hearts. This would be much like the
disciples gazing upon the heavens at the ascension of their Master,
while they forgot the practice of his orders (Acts i. 11). We may
else iind something of t e nature of God, and lose ourselves, not only
in eternit , but to eternity.
2. Andv hence the second part of the exhortation is, to something
which concerns us~ with a respect to God.
Sl.) If God be eternal, how worthy is he of our choicest aifections,
an strongest desires of communion with him! Is not everything
to be valued according to the greatness of its being! How, then,
should we love him, who is not only lovel in his nature, but eter-
nally lovely; having from everlastiiig all those perfections centered
in himself, which appear in time! everything be lovely, by how
much more it parta es of the nature of God, who is the chief good;
how much more ininitel lovely is God., who is superior to all other
goods, and eternally sol, Not a God of a few minutes, months,
years, or millions of years; not of the dregs of time or the top of
time, but of eternity; above time, inconceivably immense beyond
time. The loving him infinitely, erpetually, is an act of homage
due to him for his eternal excelllency; we may give him the one,
since our souls are immortal, though we cannot t e other, because
they are finite. Since he incloseth in himself all the excellencies of
heaven and earth forever, he should have an affection, not only of
time in this world, but of eternity in future; and if We did not owe
him a love for what we are by him, we owe him a love for what he
is in himself; and more for what he is, than for what he is to us.
He is more worthy of our affections because he is the eternal God,
than because he is our Creator; because he is more excellent in his
nature, than in his transient actions; the beams of his goodness to
IIS, are to direct our thoughts and affections to him; but his own
eternal excellency ought to be the ground and foundation of our
affections to him. And truly, since nothing but God is eternal,
nothing but God is worth the loving; and we do but a just right to
our love to pitch it upon that whic can always possess us and be
possessed by us; upon an object that cannot deceive our affection,
and put it out of countenance by a dissolution. And if our happi-
ness consists in being like to God, we should imitate him in loving
him as he loves himself, and as long as he loves himself; God can-
not do more to himself than love himself; he can make no addition
to his essence, nor diminution from it. What should we do less to
an eternal Being, than to bestow affections upon! him, like his own
to himself; since we can ind nothing so durable as himself, for
which we should love it?
(2.{)eHe onl is worth of our best service. The Ancient of Days
is to served before all that are younger than himself; our best
obedience is due to him as a God of uncontined excellency; every-
thin that is excellent deserves a veneration suitable to its excellency.
As god is infinite, he hath right to a boundlem service; as he is

