"""l
DISCOURSE VI.
ON THE IMMUTABILITY OF GOD.
Puma cii. 26, 27.-They shall perish. but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax
old as a garment; as n. vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be  
But thou nrt the same, and thy years shall have no end.
THIS Psalm contains a complaint of a eople pressed with a great
calamity; some think of the Jewish churcli in Babylon; others think
the Psalmist doth here personate mankind lying under a state of
corruption, because he wishes for the coming of the Mesiah, to ac-
complish that redemption promised by God, and needed by them.
Indeed the title of the Psalm is “A prayer of the afflicted when he
is overwhelmed, and pours out his complaint before the LOrd;”
Whether afflicted with the sense of corruption, or with the sense of
oppression. And the redemption by the Messiah, which the ancient
c urch looked u on as the fountain of their deliverance from a sinful
or a servile bondage, is in this psalm spoken of A set time ap-
pointed for the discovery of his mercy to Sion (ver. 13); an appear-
ance in glory to build up Sion (ver. 16); the loosing of the prisoner
by redemption, and them that are appointed to death (ver. 20); the
calling of the Gentiles (ver. 22); an the latter part of the psalm,
Wherein are the verses I have read, are applied to Christ (Heb. i.)
\Vhatsoever the design of the psalm might be, manv things are in-
termingled that concern the kingdom of the Messiah, and redemp-
tion by Christ.
Some make three parts of the psalm. 1. A petition plainly deliv-
ered (ver. 1, 2): “Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my ery come
unto thee,” &c. 2. The petition strongly and argumcntatively
enforced and pleaded (ve r. 3), from the misery of the petitioner in
himself, and his reproach ,from his enemies. 3. An acting of thith
in the expectation of an answer in the general redemption prom-
ised (ver. 12, 13)): “But thou, O Lord, shalt endure forever; thou
shalt arise and ave mercy upon Sion; the heathen shall fear thy
name.” The Hrst part is the petition pleaded; the second part is
the petition answered, in an assurance that there should in time
be a full deliverance! The design of the penman is to confirm
the church in the truth of the divine romises; that though the
foundations of the world should be ripped u , and the heavens elat»
ter together, and the whole fabric of them iie un inned and fall to
pieces, the firmest parts of it dissolved; yet the chiurch should con
U Pareun.

