ON 'run IMMUTABILITY or con. 811
tinue in its stability, because it stands not upon the ehangeableness
of creatures, but is built upon the immutable rock of the truth of
God, which is as little subject to change, as his essence.
They shall perish, thou shalt change them. As he had before ascribed
to God the “tbundation of heaven and earth” (ver. 25), so he ascribes
to God he}e the destruction of them. Both the beginning and end
of the world are here ascertained. There is nothing, indeed, from
the present appearance of things, that can demonstrate the cessation
of the world. The heaven and) earth stand firm; the motions of the
heavenly bodies are the same, thei1° beauty is not decayed; individ-
uals corrupt, but the species and kinds remain. The successions
of the year observe their due order; but the sin of man renders the
change of the present appearance of the world necessary to accom-
plish the design of God for the glory of his elect. The heavens do
not naturally perish, as some fancied an old age of the world, where-
in it must necessarily decay as the bodies of animals do; or that the
parts of the heavens are broken off by their rubbin one against an-
other in their motion, and falling to the earth, are the seeds of those
things that grow among us."
The earda and heavens. He names here the most stable pans of
the world, and the most beautiful parts of the creation; those that
are fmest from corruptibility and change, to illustrate thereby the
immutability of God; that though the heavens and earth have a pre-
rogative of fixedness above other parts of the world, and the creaf
tures that reside below, the heavens remain the same as they were
created, and the centre of the earth retains its fixedness, and are as
beautiful and fresh in their age as they were in their youth many
,\;eears ago, notwithstanding the change of the elements, fire and water
ing onen turned into air, so that there may remain but little of that
air which was first created by reason of the continual transmutation;
yet this Hrmness of the earth and heavens is not to be regarded in
comparison of the unmovablenew and fixedness of the beinff of God;
astheir beauty comes short of the glo of his being, so doth their
iirmness come short of his stability. gimme, by heavens and earth,
understand the creatures which reside in the earth, and those which
are in the air, which is called heaven often in Scripture; but the
1'l1lI1 and fall of these being seen every day, had been no fit illus-
tration of the unchangcableness of God.
They shall perish, they shall be changed. 1. They may perish, say
some; they have it not from themselves that they do not perish, but
from thee, who didst endue them with an incorruptible nature; they
shall perish if thou speakest the word; thou canst with as much ease
destroy them, as thou didst create them. But the Psalmist spleaks
not of their possibility, but the certainty of their erishing. 2. hey
Shall perish in their qualities and motion, not in their substance, say
others. They shall cease from that motion which is designed prop-
erly for the generation and corruption of things in the earth; but in
regard of their substance and beauty they shall remain. As when
the strings or wheels of a clock or watch are taken off, the material
pmts remain, though the motion of it, and the use for discovering
'P1iu.Hist.lib.ii.c.8.

