_-q-1
812 cmnsocx oN 'ma amnrsnrss.
the time of the day, ceaseth) To perish, doth not :signify alway 8
falling into nothing, an annihilation, by which both the matter and
the form are destro ed, but a ceasing of the present appearance of
them; a ceasing to lie what they now are; as a man is said to perish
when he dies, whereas the better part of man doth not cease to be.
The Hgure of the body moulders awa , and the matter of it returns
to dust; but the soul being immortal, ceaseth not to act, when the
body, b reason of the absence of the soul, is incapable of actin .
So the lieavens shall perish; the appearance they now have shall
vanish, and a more lorious and incorruptible frame be erected by
the power and googness of God. The dissolution of heaven and
earth is meant b the word perish ,° the raising a new frame is signi-
fied by the wordychanged: as if the S irit of God would prevent any
Wrong meaning of the word perish, by alleviating the sense of that,
b another which signifies only a mutation and change; as when we
cliiange a habit and garment, we quit the old to receive the new.
- As a garment, as a vesture. Thou shalt change them, £11-E¢¢;,° thou
shalt fold them up. , The heavens are compared to a curtain (Ps.
civ.~2), and shall in due time be folded up as clothes and curtains
are. As a garment encompasseth the whole body, so do the heavens
encircle the earth! Some say, as a ent is folded up to be laid
aside, that when there is need it may EZ taken again for use; so shalt
thou fold upathe heavens like a garment, that when they are repaired,
thou mayest again stretch them out about the earth; t ou shalt fold
them up, so that what did appear shall not now aqpear. It may be
illustrated by the metaphor of a scroll or book, W ich the Spirit of
God useth (Isa. xxxiv. 4; Rev. vi. 14% The heavens departed as a
scroll when it is rolled together.” en a book is rolled up or
shut, nothing can be read in it till it be opened again; so the face
of the heavens, wherein the stars are as letters declaring the glory
of God, shall be shut or rolled together, so that nothing shall ap ,
till by its renovation it be opened again: as a garment it shalleibre
changed, hot to be used in the same fashion, and for the same use
again. It seems, indeed, to be for the worse; an old garment is not
changed but into rags, to be put to other uses, and afterwards thrown
upon the dunghill; ut simihtudes are notto be prwd too far; and
this will not agree with the new heavens and new earth, physically
so, as well as metaphorically so. It is not likely the heavens will be
put to aworse use than Go designed them for in creation; however,
a change as a. garment, speaks not a total corruption, but an altera-
tion of qualities; as a garment not to be used in the same fashion as
before. We may observe, that it is probable the world shall not be
annihilated, but refined. It shall lose its present form and fashion;
but not its foundation: indeed, as God raised it from nothing, so he
can reduce it into nothing; yet it doth not appear that God will an-
nihilate it, and utterly destroy both the matter and form of it; E?
shall be consumed, and part piuiiied (2 Pet.   12, 13): “ e
heavens shall bc on fire and dissolved; nevertheless, we, :iccordin
to his lpromise, look for a new heaven and a new earth.” They shall
be me ted down asgold bythe artificer, to hereiined from itsdroq
‘Cooeei.inloo. °Septuag. lhtiusinliehi.

