ON 'rms rnrnnramnrrr or son. 813
and wrought into a more beautiful fashion, that tley may serve the
daiign of od for those that shall reside therein; a new world where-
in righteousness shall dwell: the apostle op sing it thereby to the
old world wherein wickedness did reside. The heavens are to be
urged, as the vessels that held the sin-offerin were to D6 urified
by the fire of the sanctuary. God, indeed, wilitake down this scafi
foll, which he hath built to ublish his glory. As every individual
hath a certain term of its dpuration, so an end is appointed for the
universal nature’ of heaven and earth (Isa. li. 6); “The heavens
shall vanish like smoke” which disappears. As smoke is resolved
and attenuated into air, not annihilated, so shall the world assume
a new face, and have a greater clearness and splendor; as the bodies
of men, dissolved into dust, shall have more lorious qualities at
their resurrection; as a vessel of gold is melted down to remove the
batterings in it, and receive a more comely form by the skill of the
workman.
1. The world was not destroyed by the deluge: it was rather
washed by water, than consumed; so it shall be rather refined by
the last ire, than lie under an irrecoverable ruin. \
2. It is not likely God would liken the everlastingness of his
covenant, and the perpetuity of his spiritual Israel, to the duration
of the ordinances of the heavens (as he doth in Jer. xxxi. 35, 86),
if they were wholly to depart from before him. Thou h that place
may only tend to an assurance of a church in the world, while the
world endures; yet it would be but small comfort, if the ha piness
of believers should endure no longer than the heavens andp earth,
if the were to have a total period. '
3. gesides, the bodies of the saints must have place for their
support to move in, and glorious objects suited to those glorious
senses which shall be restored to them; not in any carnal way,
which our Saviour rejects, when he saith, There is no eating, or
drinking, or marrying, &c. in the other world; but whereby they
may glorify God; though how or in what manner their senses sha 1
be used, would be rashness to determine; only something is neces-
sary forthe corporeal state of men, that there may be an employ-
ment for their senses as well as their souls.
4. Agni, How could the creature, the world, or any part of it, be
said to delivered from the bondage of corru tion, into the glori-
ous liberty of the sons of God, if the whole fiiune of heaven and
earth were to be annihilated (Rom. viii. 21)? The apostle saith also,
that the creature waits with an “earnest expectation for this mani-
festation of the sons of God" (ver. 19); which would have no foun-
dation if the whole frame should be reduced to nothing. What joy-
ful expectation can there be in any of a total ruin? H-ow shou d
the creature be capable of artaking in this glorious liberty of the
Bons of God 7° As the world for the sin of man lost its first dignity,
and was cursed after the fall, and the beauty bestowed upon it by
Creation dcfaccd ; so it shall recover that ancient glory, when he
Shall be fully restored by the resurrection to that dignity he lost by
ill! that sin. As man shall be freed from his corruptibihty to receive
° Hyper. in Heb. 1.

