/
814 _ onansocx ON 'rss arrnmurrzs.
that glory which is prepared for him, so shall the creatures be freed
from that im}perfeet1on or eorruptibility, those stains and spots upon
the face of t em, to receive a new glory suited to their nature, and
answerable to the design of God, when the glorious liberty of the
saints shall be accomplishedf As when a prince’s nuptials are sol-
emnized, the whole country echoes with jo 1; so the 'inanimate crea-
tures, when the time of the ‘marriage of the Lamb is come, shall
have a delight and pleasure from that renovation. The apostle sets
forth the whole world as a person groaning; and the Scripture is
frequent in such metaphors ;, as when the creatures are said to wait
upon God, and to be troubled, the hills are said to leap and the
mountains to rejoice (Ps. civ. 27-29) ; the creature is said to groan,
as the heavens are said to declare the glory of God, passively,
naturally, not rationally. It is not likel angels are here meant,
though they cannot but desire it; since they are affected with the
dishonor and reproach God hath in the world, they cannot but long
for the restoration of his honor in the restoration of the creature to
its true end: and, indeed, the angels are employed to serve man in
this sinful state, and cannot but in holiness wish the creature freed
from his corruption. Nor is it meant of the new creatures, which
have the first ruits of the Spirit; those he brings in afterwards,
groaning and waiting for the adoption (ver. 23); where he distin-
guishcth the rational creatine from the creature he had spoken of
efore. If he had meant the believing creature by that creature
that desired the liberty of the sons of God, what need had there
been of that additional distinction, and not only they, but we also
who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan within ourselves?
Whereby' it seems he means some creatures below rational creatures,
since neither angels nor blessed souls can be said to travail in pain,
with thatdistress as a woman in travail hath, as the word signihes,
who perform the work joyfully which God sets them upon.8 If the
creatures be subject to vanity by the sin of man, they shall also
partake of a haiapiness by the restoration of man. The earth hath
orne thorns an thistles, and venomous beasts; the air hath had
its tempcsts and infectious qualities; the water hath caused its floods
and deluges. The creature hath been abused to luxury and intern-
perance; and been tyrannized over by man, contrary to the end of
its creation. It is convenient that some time should be allotted for the
creature’s attaining its true end, and that it may partake of the
peace of man, as it hath done of the fruits of his sin; otherwise it
would seem, that sin had prevailed more than grace, and would have
haél more power to deface, than grace to restore things into their due
or er.
5. Again, Upon what account should the Psalmist exhort the
heavens to rejoice, and the earth to be glad, when God “comes to
judge the World with righteousness” (Ps. xcvi. 11-13), if thev should
be annihilated and sunk forever into nothing? “It would seem,”
saith Daille, “ to be an im ertinent figure, if the Judge of the world
brought to them a total dpestruction; an entire ruin could not be
matter of triumph to creatures, who naturally have that instinct or
f Mestraazat sur. Heb. i. I Mestraazat sur. Heb. i.

