_ ON 'run IMMUTABILITY or con. 315
inclination put into them by their Creator, to preserve themselves
and to effect their own preservation.”
6. Again, the Lord is to rejoice in his works Ps. civ. 31): “The
glory of the Lord shall endure forever; the Lor shall rejoice in his
works;” not hath, but shall rejoice in his works: in the works of crea-
tion, which the Psalmist had enumerated, and which is the whole scope
ofthe Psalm: and he intimates that it is part of the glory of the Lord
which endures forever; that is, his manifestative glorv, to rejoice in his
works: the glory of the Lord must be understood with reference to the
creation he had spoken of before. How short was that joy God had in
his works a&er he had sent them beautied out of his hand! How soon
did he repent, not only that he had made man, but was grieved at
the heart also, that he made the other creatures which man’s sin
had disordered! (Gen. vi. 7.) What joy can God have in them, since
the curse upon the entrance of sin into the world remains upon
them? If the are to be annihilated upon the full restoration of
his holiness, wllat time will God have to rejoice in the other works
of creation? It is the joy of God to see all his works in due order;
every one pointing to their true end ; marching together in their ex-
cellency, according to his first intendment in their creation. Did
God create the world to perform its end only for one dav; scarce so
much, if Adam fell the very first day of his creation? ‘What would
have been their end, if Adam had been confirmed in a state of hap-
pinem as the angels were? ’tis likely will be answered and per-
ormed upon the complete restoration of man to that ha py state
from whence he fell. Vhat artificer compiles a work by  skill,
but to rejoice in it? And shall God have no jo from the works
of his hands? Since God can onlv rejoice in g00({l16SS, the creatures
must have that goodness restored to them which God pronounced
them to have at the first creation, and which he ordained them fbr,
before he can again rejoice in his works. The goodness of the crea-
tures is the glory and joy of God.
Inference 1. We ma infer from hence, what a base and vile thing
sin is, which lays the fioundation of the world’s change. Sin brings
it to a decre it age; sin overturned the whole work of God (Gen.
iii. 17); so tliat to render it useful to its proper end, there is a neces-
sity of a kind of a new creating it. T is causes God to fire the
earth for a. purification of it from that infection and contagion
brought upon it by the apostasy and corruption of man. It hath
served sinful man, and therefore must undergo a purging flame, to
be fit to serve the holv and righteous Creator, As sin is so riveted
in the body of man, that there is need of a change by death to raze
it out; so hath the curse for sin got so deep into the bowels of’ the
world, that there is need of a change by fire to refine it for its mas-
tcr’s use. Let us look upon sin with no other notion than as the
object of' God’s hatred, the cause of his grief in the creatures, and
the spring of the pain and ruin of the world.
2. How foolish a thing is it to set our hearts upon that which shall
perish, and be no more what it is now l The heavens and the earth,
the solidest and firmest parts of the creation, shall not continue in
the posture they are; they must perish and undergo a refining
1

