B16 cnimnocx ou 'rss Arrmsnras. `
change. How feeble and weak are the other parts of the creation,
the little creatures walking upon and fluttering about the world, that
are perishing and dying everyday; and we scarce see thein clothed
with life an beauty this day, but they wither and are despoiled of
all the next ;» and are such irail thin ‘dt objects for our everlasting
spirits and afections ? Though the Easily employment of the heavens
is the declaration of the glory of God (Ps. xix. 1), yet neither this,
nor their harmony, order, beauty, amazing greatness and glory of
them, shall reserve them from a dissolution and melting at the
presence of tie Lord. Though they have remained in the same pos-
ture from the creation till this day, and are of so great antiéluity, yet
they must bow down to a change before the will and wor of their
Creator; and shall we rest-u on that which shall vanish like smoke?
Shall we take any creature iidr our sup rt like ice, that will crack
under our feet, and must, by the order oixiheir Lord Creator, deceive
our ho es? Perishing things can be no support to the soul; if we
would have rest, we must rim to God and rest in God. How con-
tern tible should that be to us, whose fashion shall pass away, which
shall) not endure long in its present form and appearance; contemp-
tible as a rest, not contern tible as the work of God; contemptib e
as an end, not cont/emptiblie as a means to attain our endl If these
must be chan ed, how unworthy are other things to be the centre
of our souls, tiiat change in our very using of them, and slide away
in our very enjoyment of them!
Tlwu, art the same. The essence of God, with all the perfection;
of his nature, are pronounced the same, without any variation from
eternity to eternity ; so that the text doth not only assert the eternal
duration of God, but his immutability in that duration. His eternity
is signified in that expression, “Thou shalt endure ;” his immuta-
bility in this, “ Thou art the same.” To endure, argues indeed his
immutability as well as eternity; for what endures, is not changed,
and what is changed, doth not endure ;h but “Thou art the
same"i doth more fully signify it. He could not be the same‘if he
could be changed into any other thing than what he is; the Psalmist
therefore puts not thou hast been, or shalt be, but thou art the same,
without any alteration. “Thou art the sarne;” that is, the same
God ; the same in essence and nature; the same in will and purpose.
Thou dost change all other things as thou leasest, but thou art im-
mutable in every respect, and receivest no shadow of change, though
never so light and small. The Psalmist here alludes to the name
Jehovah, I Am ;k and doth not only ascribe immutability to God,
but exclude everything else from partaking in that perfection. All
things else are totterin -; God sees all other things in continual
motion under his feet, lie water passing away and no more seen;
while he remains fixed and immovable; his wisdom and power, his
knowledge and will, are alwa s the same. His essence can receive
,no alteration, neither by itself? nor by any external cause; whereas
other things either naturally decline to destruction, plains from one
term to another, till they come to their period; or s at the last
\ Estius in Heb. i. * Chrysoltom, Nfl fllnl.
U ’AMméawg xpéarrdv 'above all change. Theodor.

