ON 'ms muummnrrr or son. , 317
day be wrapped up, after God hath completed his will in them and
by them, as a man doth a garment he intends to repair and trans
form to another use. So that in the text, God, asimmutable, is op
posed to all creatures as perishing and changeable.
Doctrine. God is unchangeable in his essence, nature, and perfec-
cions. Immutability and eternity are linked together; and, indeed,
true eternity is true immutability ; whence eternity is defined the
possession of an immutable life. Yet immutability differs from
eternity in our conception; immutability respects the essence or ex-
istence of a thing; eternity respects the duration of a being in that
state, or rather, immutability is the state itself ;\ eternity is the
measure of that state. A thing is said to be changed, when it is
otherwise now in regard of natiue, state, will, or any quality than it
was before; when either something is added to it, or taken from it;
when it either loses or acquires. But now it isthe essential property
of God, not to have any accession to, or diminution oi, his essence
or attributes, but to remain entirely the same. He wants nothing;
heloses nothing; but doth uniformly exist by himself, without any new
nature, new thoughts, new will, new purpose, or new place. This un~
changeablenex of God was anciently represented by the figure ofa cube,
a (piece of metal or wood framed four-square, when every side is exactly.
o the same equality ; cast it which way you will, it will always be in
the same posture, because it is equal to itself in all its dimensional"
He was therefore said to be the centre of all things, and other things
the circumference; the centre is never moved, while the circumfer-
ence is; it remains immovable in the midst of the circle; “ There is
no variableness nor shadow of turning with him" (James i. 17). The
moon hath her spots, so hath the sun; there is a mixture of light
and darkness; it hath its changes; sometimes it is in the increase,
sometimes in the wane; it is always either gaining or losing, and by
the turnings and motions, either of the heavenly bodies or of the
earth, it is in its ecli se, by the interposition of the earth between
that and the sun. The sun also hath its diurnal and annual motion ; it
riseth and sets, and puts on a different face; it doth not always shine
with the noon-day light; it is sometimes veiled with clouds and
vapors; it is always going from one tropic to another, whereby it
makes various shadows on the earth, and produceth the various
seasons ofthe year; it is not always in our hemisphere, nor doth it
always shine with an equal force and brightness in it. Such shadows
and variations have no place in the eternal Father of Lights; he
hath not the least spot or diminution of brightness; nothing can
cloud him or eclipse him.
_For the better understanding this perfectibn of God., I shall pre-
misethree things.
_1. The immutability of God is a perfection. Immutabilitv con-
sidered in itself, without relation to other things, is not a perfection.
Itisthe greatest misery and imperfection of the evil angels, that
they are immutable inmalice against God ; but as God is infinite in
Qence, infinitely good, wise, holy; so it is a perfection necessaryto
his nature, that he should be immutably a this, all excellency,
' Gamacheus. ' Amyraut sur Heb. ix. p. 158.

