318 cnsmrocir ON THE yrrnmurss.
goodness, wisdom, imrnutably all that he is; without this he would
be an imperfect Being; Are not the angels in heaven, who are con-
firmed in a holy and appy state, more perfect than when they were
in a possibility of committing evil and becoming miserable . Are
not t e saints in heaven, whose wills by grace do unalterably cleave
to God and goodness, more perfect than if they were as Adam in
Paradise, capable of losing t eir felicity, as well as reserving it?
W'e count a rock, in regar of its stability, more exceilent than the
dust of the ground, or a feather that is tossed about with every
wind; is it not also the perfection of the body to have a constant
tenor of health, and the glory of a man not to warp aside from what
is just and ri ht, by the lpersuasions of any temptations?
2. Immutaiility is a g ory belonging to all the attributes of God.
It is not a single perfection of the Divine nature, nor is it limited to
particular objects thus and thus disposed. Mercy and justice have
their distinct objects and distinct acts; mercy is conversant about a
penitent, justice conversant about an obstinate sinner. In our notion
and conception of the Divine perfections, his perfections are difler~
ent: the wisdom of God is not his power, nor his ower his holi-
ness, but imrnutabilit is the centre wherein they aliiunite. There
is not one perfection but may be said to be and truly is, immutable;
none of them will appear so glorious without this beam, this sun of
innmutability, which renders them highly excellent without the least
shadow of im erfection. How cloudy would his blessedness be if it
were changeable! How dim his wisdom, if it might be obscured !
How feeble his power, if it were capable to be sickly and languish l
How would mercy lose much of its lustre, if it could change into
wrath; and justice much of its dread, if it could be turned into
mere , while the object of justice remains unfit for mere , and one
that liiath need of mercy continues only tit for the Divine fiiry I But
unchangeableness is a thread that runs thro h the whole web; it is
the enamel of all the rest; none of them wilgiout it could look with
a trium hant aspect. His power is unchangeable: “ In the Lord
Jehovah) is everlasting strength" (Isa. xxvi. 4). His mercy and his
holiness endure forever: he never could, nor ever can, look upon
iniquity (Hab. i. 13). He is a rock in the righteousness of his ways,
the truth of his word, the holiness of his proceedings, and the recti-
tude of his nature. All are expressed Deut xxxii. 4: “He is a rock,
hiswork is perfect, for all his ways are judgment; a God of truth,
and without iniquity; just and right is he.” All that we consider
in God is unchangeable; for his essence and his properties are the
same, and, therefore, what is necessarily belonging to the emence of
God, belongs also to every perfection of the nature of God; none of
them can receive any addition or diminution. From the unchange-
ableness of his nature, the a tle (James i. 17) infers the unchange-
ableness of his holiness, ancliollimself (in Mal.   6) the unchange-
ableness of his counsel. .
3. Unchangeableness doth necessarily pertain to the nature of God.
`[t is of the same necessity with the rectitude of his nature; he can no
more be changeable in his essence than he can be uxirighteous in his
actions. God is a necessary Being; he is necessarily what he is, and,

