ON THE IMMUT/tB1r.1rY or son. 319
therefore, is unchangeably what he is. Mutability belongs to con-
tingency. If any perfection of his nature could be separated from
him, he would cease to be God. What did not possess the whole nature
of God, could not have the essence of God; it is reeiprocated with
the nature of God. Whatsoever is immutable by nature is God;
whatsoever is God is immutable by nature. Some creatures are im-
mutable by his grace and power. God is holy, ha py, wise, good, by
his essence; angels and men are made holy, wise,l)iappy, strong, and
good, by qualities and graces." The holiness, happinem and wisdom
of saints and angels, as they had a beginning, so they are capable of in-
crease and diminution, and of an end also; for their standing is not
from themselves, or from the nature of created strength, holiness, or
wisdom, which in themselves are apt to fail, and final] to decay;
but from the stability and confirmation they have by the giit and
grace of God. The heaven and earth shall be chan ed; and after
that renewal and reparation they shall not be changei Om' bodies
alter the resurrection shall not be changed, but forever be “made
conformable to the glorious body of Christ" (Phil. iii. 21); but this
is by the powerful grace of God: so that, indeed, those things may
be said afterwards rather to be unch anged than unchangeable, because
they are not so by nature, but by sovereign dispensation. As crea-
tures have not necessary beings, so they have not necessary immuta-
bility. Necessity of being, a-md, therefore, immutability of being,
belongs by nature only to God; otherwise, if there were an change
in God, he would be sometimes what he was not, and wouldv cease to
be what he was, which is against the nature, and, indeed, against the
natural notion of a Deity. Let us see then, c
I In what regards God is immutable. II. Prove that God is im-
mutable. III. That this is proper to God, and incommunicable to
any creature. IV. Some propositions to clear the unchangeableness
of God from anything that seems contrary to it. V. The use.
I. In what respects God is unehangeable.
1. God is unchangeable in his essence. He is unalterably fixed in
his being, so that not a particle of it can be lost from it, not a mite
added to it. If a man continue in being as long as Methuselah, nine
hundred and sixty-nine years; yet there is not a day, na , an hour,
wherein there is not some alteration in his substance. , Though no
substantial part is wanting, et there is an addition to him by his
food, a diminution of something by his labor; he is always making
some acquisition, or suffering some loss: but in God there can be no
alteration, by the accession of anything to make his substance greater
or better, or by diminution to make it less or worse. He who hath
not being from another, cannot but be always what he is: God is the
lirst Being, an independent Being; he was not produced of himself,
or of any other, but by nature always hath been, and, therefore, can-
not by himself, or b any other, be changed from what he is in his
Own nature. That which is not may as well assume to itself a being, as
he who hath and is all being, have the least change from what he is.
Again, because he is a Spirit, he is not subject to those mutations
which are found in corporeal and bodily nat\u°es; because he is an
I Archbold, Serm. `

