820 CHARNOCK ON frm; arrnmurns.
absolutely simple Spirit, not having the least particle of composition;
he is not capa le 0 those changes which may be in created spirits
(1.) If his essence were mutable, God would not truly be; it could
not be truly said by himself; “I Am that I Am” (Exod. iii. 14), if
he were such a. thing or Being at this time, and a different Being at
another time. Whatsoever is chan ed properly is not, because it
doth not remain to be what it was; that which is changed was some-
thing, is something, and will be something. A being remains to that
thing which is changed; yet though it may be said such a thing is,
yet it may be also said such a thing is not, because it is not what it
was in its 'first being; it is not now what it was, it is now what it was
not; it is another thing than it was, it was another thing than it is;
it will be another thing than what it is or was. It is, indeed, a being,
but a different being from what it was before. But if God were
changed, it could not be said of him that he is, but it might also be
said of him that he is not; or if he were changeable, or could be
changed, it might be said of him he   but he will not be what he
is; or he may not be what he is, but there will be or may be some
difference in his being, and so God would not be “I Am that I Am ;"
for thou h he would not cease utterly to be, yet he would cease to
be whatdie was before.
(2.) Again: if his essence were mutable, he could not be perfectly
blessed, and fully rejoice in himself If he changed for the better,
he could not have an infinite pleasure in what he was before the
change, because he was not infinitel blessed; and the pleasure of
that state could not be of a higher lliind than the state itself, or, at
least, the apprehension of a happiness in it. If he changed forthe
worse, he could not have a leasure in it after the change; for ac-
cording to the diminution oiP his state would be the decrease of his
leasure. His pleasure could not be infinite before the change, if
he changed for the better; it could not be inhnite after the change,
if he changed for the worse. If he changed for the better, he would
not have had an infinite goodness of being before; and not having
an infinite goodness of being, he would have a iinite goodness o
being; for there is no medium between ‘finite and infinite. Then,
though the change were for the better, yet, being finite before, some-
thing would be still wanting to make him intinitely blessed; because
being finite, he could not change to that which is infinite; for finite
and infinite are extremes so distant, that they can never paws into
one another; that is, that that which is finite should become infinite,
or that which is inhnite should become finite; so that su posing him
mutable, his essence in no state of change could furnish llim with an
infinite peace and blessedness.
(3.) Again: if Godls essence be changed, he either increaseth or
diminisheth.° Whatsoever is changed, doth either lgain by receiving
something larger and greater than it had in itse before, or gains
nothing by being changed. If the former, then it receives more than
itself, more than it had in itself before. The Divine nature cannot
be increased; for whatsoever receives anything than what it had
in itself before, must necessarily receive it from another, because
° Hugo Victorin. in Petavio.

