ON 'rss mimranrnrrr or son. 821
nothing can give to itself that which it hath not. But God cannot
receive from another what he hath not alread , because whatsoever
other things possess is derived from him, and: therefore, contained
in him, as the fountain contains the virtue in itself which it conveys
to the streams; so that God cannot gain anything. If a thing that
is changed gain nothing by that change, it loseth something of what
it had before in itself; an this loss must be by itself or some other.
God cannot receive any loss from anything in himself; he cannot
will his own diminution, that is repugnant to every nature. He may
as well will his own destruction as his own decrease: every decrease
is a partial destruction. But it is impossible for God to die any kind
of death, to have any resemblance of death, for he is immortal, and
“only hath immortality" (1 Tim. vi. 16), therefore im ssible to be
diminished in any particle of his essence; nor can he Sgdiminished
bv anything in his own nature, because his infinite simplicity admits
of nothing distinct from himself, or contrary to himself All de-
creases come from something contrary to the nature of that thing
which doth decrease. Whatsoever is made less than itself, was not
truly unum, one and simple, because that which divides itself in
slgpamuon was not the same in conjunction. Nor can he be dimin-
` ed by any other without himself; because nothing is superior to
God, nothing stronger than God which can oppress him. But whatf'
soever is changed is weaker than that which changeth it, and sinks
under a power it cannot successfully resist; weakness belongs not to
the Deity.P Nor, lastly, can God change from a state wherein he is,
to another state equal to the former, as men in some cases may do;
for in passing from one state to another equal to it, something must
be parted with which he had before, that some other thing may ac-
crue to him as a recompense for that loss, to make him equal to what
he was. This recompense then he had not before, though'he had
something e ual to it. And in this case it could not be said by God
“I Am thatql Am,” but I am equal to what I was; for in this case
there would be a diminution and increase which, as was showed,
cannot be in God.
(4.) Again: God is of himself, from no others Natures, which
are made by God, may increase, because they began to be; they
mav decrease, because the were made of not ing, and so tend to
nothing; the condition of? their original leads them to defect, and
the power of their Creator brings them to increase. But God hath
no ori `nal, he hath no defect, because he was not made of nothing:
he hatiino increase, because he had no beginning. He was before
all things, and, therefore, depends upon no other thing which, b its
Qwn change, can bring an change ulpon him. That which is fiom
Itself cannot be changed, because it math nothing before it, nothing
more excellent than itself; but that which is from another as its first
cause and chief good, may be changed by that which was its efhcient
cause and last end!
2. (lol is iminutable in regard of knowledge. God hath lfnown
from all eternity all that which he can know, so that nothing is hid
from him. He knows not at present any more than he hath known
I lbid. ' q Austin. Fulgen in Petavio. ' Petav. Tom. I. p. 17S»
voi. r.-21

