822 cnn.NocK=oN 'mn irrmsurss.
from eternity: and that which he knows now he always knows:
“ All things are open and naked before him” (Heb. iv. 13). A man
is said to be changed in regard of knowledge, when he knows that
now which he did not know before, or knows that to be false now
which he thought true before, or has something for the object of his
understanding now, which he had not before. But,
(Li This would be repugnant to the wisdom and omniscience
whic belongs to the notions of a Deity. That cannot be God that
is not ininitely wise; that cannot be infinitely wise that is either
ignorant of, or mistaken in, his apprehension of any one thing. If
God be changed in knowledge, it must be for want of wisdom ; all
change of this nature in creatures implies this defect preceding or
accompaiiying it. Such a thought of God would have been un-
worthy o him that is “only wise,” that hath no mate for wisdom
(1 Tim. i. 17); none wise beside himself If he knew that thing
this day which he knew not before, he would not be an “onl wise
Being; for a being that did know everything at once might he con-
ceived, and so a wiser being be apprehended by the mind of man.
If God understood a thing at one time which he did not at another
he would be chan ed from ignorance to knowledge; as if he could
pot do that this iday which he could do to-morrow, he would be
changed from impotence to power. He could not be always omnis-
cient, because there might be yet something still to come which he
yet knows not, though he may know all things that are past. What
way soever you suppose a change, you must suppose a present or a
past ignorance; if e be changed in his knowle ge for the perfec-
tion of his understandin? he was ignorant before; if his under-
standing be impaired by t e change, he is ignorant after it.
(2.) If God were changeable in his knowledge, it would make
him unit to be an object of trust to any rational creature. His rev-
elations would want the due ground for entertainment, if his under-
standing were changeable; for that might be revealed as-truth now
which might prove false hereafter, and that as false now which here-
after might prove true; and so God would be an unit object of
obedience in regard of his precepts, and an unit object of con~
idence in regard of his promises. For if he be changeable in
knowledge he is defective in knowledge, and might promise that now
which he would know afterwards was unit to be promised, and,
therefore, unit to be performed. It would make him an incompe-
tent object of dread, in regard of his threatenings; for he might
threaten that now which he might know hereafter were not it or
just to be inflicted. A changeable mind and understanding cannot
make a due and right judgment of things to be done, and things to
be avoided; no wise man would judge it reasonable to trust a weak
and iitting person. God must needs be unchangeable in his knowl-
edge; but, as the sehoolmen say, that, as the sun always shines, so
God always knows; as the sun never ceaseth to shine, so God never
ceaseth to know. Nothing can be hid from the vast compass of his
understanding, no more than anything can shelter itself without the
verge of his power. This farther appears in that,
lst. God knows by his own essence. He doth not know, as we

