ON THE IMMUTABILITY or son. 828
do, by habits, qualities, species, whereby we may be mistaken at
one time and rectified at another. He hath not an understanding
distinct from his essence as we have, but being the most simple
Being, his understanding is his essence; and as from the intinitencss
of his essence we conclude the intiniteness of his understanding, so
from the unchangeableness of his essence, we may justly conclude
the unchangeableness of his knowledge. Since, therefore, God is
without all composition, and his understanding is not distinct from
his essence, what he knows, he knows by his essence, and there can
then be no more mutability in his knowledge than there can be in
his essence; and if there were any in that, the could not be God, be-
cause he would have the property of a creature. If his understand-
ing then be his essence, his knowledge is as necessary, as unchange-
ableashis essence. As his essence eminently contains all perfec-
tions in itself, so his understanding comprehends all things past,
present, and future, in itself If his understanding and his essence
were not one and the same, he were not simple, but compounded: if
conapounded, he would consist of parts; if e consisted of parts, he
wo d not be an independent Being, and so would not be God.
2d. God knows all things by one intuitive act. As there is no
succession in his being, so that he is one thing now and another
thing hereafter; so there is no succession in his knowledge. He
knows things that are successive, before their existence and succes-
sion, by one single act of intuition; by one cast of his eye all things
future are present to him in regard of his eternity and omnipresencc;
so that though there is a. change and variation in the things known,
yet his knowledge of them and their several changes in nature is in-
variable' and unaltcrable. .As imagine a creature that could see with
his eye at one glance the whole compass of the heavens, by sending
out beams from his eye without receiving any species from them, he
would see the whole heavens uniformly, this part now in the east,
then in the west, Without an change in his eye, for he sees every
part and every motion together; and though that great body varies
and whirls about, and is in continual agitation, his eye remains stead-
fast, suffers no change, beholds all their motions at once and by one
glance. God knows all things from eternitv, and, therefore, perpet-
ually knows them ;' the reason is because the Divine knowledge is
in’dnite,¢ and therefore, comprehends all knowable truths at once.
An eternal knowledge comprehends in itself all time, and beholds
past and present in the same manner, and, therefore, his knowledge
isimmutable: bygone simple knowledge he considers the infinite
Spaces of ast an future.
3d. Godls knowledge and will is the cause of all things and their
suecessions.° There can be no pretence of any changeablencss of
knowledge in God; but in this case, before things come to pass, he
knows that they will come to ass; after they are come to pass, he
knows that they are past, and slide away. This would be some-
thing if the succession of things were the cause of the Divine
knowledge, as it is of our knowledge; but on the contrary, the
‘Susrez. Vol. I. p. 187. * Psalm cxlv. 5. “ His understanding is infinite.”
‘ Austin Briulwardine.

