824 crrannocx ON mn A'I'1‘RIBU'I'E8.
Divine knowledge and will is the cause of the succession of them:
God doth not know creatures because they are; but the are because
he knows them: “All his works were known to him fiom the be-
ginning of the world" (Acts xv. 18). All his works were not known
to him, if the events of all those works were not also known to
him; if the ' were not known to him, how should he make them? he
could not do an 'thing ignorantly. Ile made them then after he
knew th@rn, and did not know them after he made them. His knowl-
ed fc of them made a change in them; their existence made no change
in Iris knowledge. He knew them when they were to be created, in
the same manner that he knew them after they were created; before
they were brought into act, as well as after they were brought into
act; before they were made, they were, and were not; they were in
the knowledge of God, when thev were not in their own nature;
God did not receive his knowledge from their existence, but his
knowled e and will acted upon them to bring them into being.
4th. 'lierefore the distinction of past and future makes no change
in the knowledge of God. When a. thing is past, God hath no
more distinct knowledge of it after it is past, than he had when it
was to come; all things were all in their circumstances of past, pres-
ent, and to come; seen b his understanding, as they were <leter~
mined by his will! Besidyes, to know a day to be past or future,
is only to know the state of that day in itself; and to know its rela-
tion to that which follows, and that which went before. This day
wherein we are, if We consider it in the state wherein it was yesteb
day, it was to come, it was future; but if we consider it in that
state wherein it will be to-morrow, we understand it as past. This
in man cannot be said to be a diifcrent knowledge of the thilrig
itself; but only of the circumstance attending a thing, and the `-
ferent relation of it. As I see the sim this da , I 'know it was up
yesterday, I know it will be up to-morrow ; my knowledge of the sun
is the same; if there be any change, it is in the sun, not in my
knowledge; only I apply my knowledge to such particular circum-
stances. How much more must the knowledge of those things in
God be unehangcable, who knows all those states, conditions, and
circumstances, most perfectly from eternity; wherein there is no
succession, no past or future, and therefore will know them for-
ever! He always beholds the same thing; he sees, indeed, succee-
sion in things, and he sees a thing to be past which before was fixture.
As from eternity he saw Adam as existing in such a time; in the
first time he saw that he would be, in the following time he saw
that he had been ; but this he knew from eternity; this he knew in
the same manner; though there was a variation m Adam, yet there
was no variation in God’s knowledge of him, in all his states; though
Adam was not present to himself, yet in all his states he was pres-
ent to Grod's eternity.
5th. Consider, that the knowledge of God, in regard of the IMD'
ner of it, as well as the objects, is incomprehensible to a finite crea-
ture. So that though we cannot arrive to a full understanding of
the manner of God’s knowledge, yet we must conceive so of it, saw
' Gamch. p. 1. Acquin. Qu. 9. c. i. p. 78.

