ON 'rmc IIIMUTABILITY or son. 325
remove all imperfection from him in it. And since it is an imper-
fection to be changeable, we must remove that from God; the knowl
edge of God about things past, resent and fixture, must be incon-
ceivably above ours: “His undlerstauding is infinite” (Ps. cxlvii.
5). There is no number of it; it can no more be calculated or drawn
into an account by us, than infinite s aces, which have no bounds
and limits, can be measured by us. lge can no more arrive, even
in heaven, to a comprehensive understanding of the manner of his
knowledge, than of the infinite gloi of his essence; we may as well
comprehend one as the other. T 's we must conclude, that God
being not abody, doth not see one thing with eyes, and another
thing with mind, as we do; but being a spirit, he sees and knows
only with mind, and his mind is himself, and is as unchangeable as
himself; and therefore as he is not now another thing than what he
was, so he knows not anything now in another manner than as he
knew it from eternity; he sees all things in the glass of his own
essence; as, therefore, the glass doth not vary, so neither doth his
vision.
3. God is lmchangeable in regard of his will and urpose. A
chanve in his purpose is, when a man determines to so that now
which before he determined not to do, or to do the contrary; when
a man hates that thing which he loved, or begins to love that which
he before hated; when the will is changed, a man begins to will that
which he willed not before, and ceaseth to will that which he willed
before. But whatsoever God hath decreed, is immutable; whatsoever
God hath promised, shall be accomplished: “The word that goes
forth of his mouth shall not return to him void, but it shall accom-
Elish that which he pleaseth" (Isa. lv. 1 1); whatsoever “ he purposeth,
e will do" (Isa. xlvi. 11 ; Numb. xxiii. 19% his decrees are therefore
called “ mountains of brass” (Zech. vi. 1): rass, as having substance
Ind solidity; mountains, as being immovable, not only by any crea-
ture, but by himself; because they stand upon the basis of infallible
Wisdom, and are suplported by uncontrollab e power. From this im-
mutability of his wi l, publis ed to man, there could be no release
hom the severity of the law, without satisfaction made by the death
of a Mediator, since it was the unalterable ,will of God, that death
should be the wages of sin; and from this immutable will it was,
that the length of time, from the first promise of the Redeemer to
his mission, and the daily provocations of men, altered not his ur-
pose for the accomplishment of it in the fulness of that time he lied
resolved u n; nor did the wickednem of former ages hinder the
addition otpo several promises as buttresses to the first. To make this
out, consider,
(1.) The will of God is the same with his essence. If God had a
will distinct from his essence, he would not be the most sim le Being.
God hath not a faculty of will distinct from himself; as his under-
standing is nothing else but Deus inkllzgens, God understanding; so
his will is nothing else but Deus volens, God willing; being, there~
ine, the essence of God; though it is considered, according to our
wmkness, as a faculty, it is as his understanding and wisdom, eternal
and immutable; and can no more be changed than his essence. The

