326 f cmnsocn ON THE Arriusurns.
immutability of the Divine counsel depends upon that of his ewence,
he is the Lord Jehovah, therefore he is true to his word (Mal. iii. 6;
Isa. xliii. 13): “ Yea, before the day I am he, and there is none that
can deliver out of my hand." He is the same, immutable in his es
sence, therefore irresistible in his power.
(2.) There is a concurrence of God’s will and understanding in every-
thing. As his knowledge is eternal, so is his purpose. Things created
had not been known to be, had not God resolved them to be the act
of his will; the existence of anything supposeth an act of his will.
Again, as God knows all thin by one simple vision of his under-
standing, so he wills all things lnsy one act of volition; therefore the
purpose of God in the Scripture is not expressed by counsels in the
plural number, but counse ; showing that all the purposes of God
are not various, but as one will, branching itself out into many acts
towards the creature; but all knit in one root, all links of one chain.
\Vhatsoever is eternal is immutable; as his knowledge is eternal,
and therefore immutable, so is his will; he wills or nills nothing to
be in time, but what he willed and nilled from eternit ; if he willed
in time that to be that he willed not from eternity, then lie would know
that in time which he knew not from eternity; for God knows noth-
ing future, but as his will orders it to be future, and in time to be
brought into being.
(3.) There can be no reason for any change in the will of God.
Wlien men change in their minds, it must be for want of foresight;
because the could not foresee all the rubs and bars which might
suddenly offer themselves; which if they had foreseen, they would
not have taken such measures: hence men often will that which they
afterwards wish they had not willed when they come to understand
it clearer, and see that to be injurious to them which they thought
to be good for them; or else the change proceeds from a natural in-
stability without any just cause, and an easiness to be drawn into
that which is unrighteous; or else it proceeds from a want of power,
when men take new counsels, because they are invincibly hindered
from executing the old. But none of those can be in God.
lst. It cannot be for want of foresight. YVhat can be wanting to
an infinite understandin ? How can any unknown event defeat his
purpose, since nothing happens in the world but what he wills to
effect, or wills to rmit; and therefore all future events are present
with him? Besidie; it doth not consist with God’s wisdom to resolve
anything, but upon the highest reason; and what is the highest and
inhnite reason, cannot but be unalterable in itself; for there can be
no reason and wisdom higher than the highest. All God’s u ses
are not bare acts of will, but acts of counsel. “ He works all irhiiigs
according to the counsel of his own will” (Eph. i. 11): and he doth
not say so much that his will, as that “his counsel shall stand”  
xlvi. 10). It stands, because it is counsel; and the immutability of
a promise is called the “immutability of his counsel” (Heb. vi. 17),
as being introduced and settled by the most perfect wisdom, and
therefore to be carried on to a hill and complete execution ; his pur-
ose, then, cannot be changed for want of foresight; for this would
he a charge of weakness.

