ON THE IMMUTABILI'I‘Y or GOD. 327
2d. Nor can it proceed from a, natural instability of his will, or an
easiness to be drawn to that which is unrighteous. If his will should
not adhere to his counsel, it is because it is not fit to be followed, or be~
cause it will not follow it; if not tit to be followed, it is a reflection
upon his wisdom; if it be established, and he will not follow it,
there is a contrariety in God, as there is in a fallen creature, will
against wisdom. That cannot be in God which he hates in a crea-
ture, viz. the disorder of faculties, and being out of their due place.
The righteousness of God is like a “great mountain” (Ps. xxxvi.
6). The rectitude of his nature is as immovable in itself, as all the
mountains in the world are by the strength of man. “He is not w
a man, that he should repent or lie” (NQumb.   19); who often
changes, out of a perversity of will, as well as want of wisdom to
foresee, or want of ability to perform. His eternal purpose must
either be righteous or unrightcous; if righteous and holy, he would
become unholy b the change; if not righteous nor holy, then he
was unrighteous liefore the change; which way soever it falls, it
would retiect upon the righteousness of God, which is a blasphe-
mous imaginationn' If God did change his (purpose, it must be
either for the better,--then the counsel of Go was bad before; or
for the worse,-then he was not wise and good before.
3d. Nor can it be for want of strength. Who hath power to
control him? Not all the combined devices and endeavors of men
can make the counsel of God to totter (Prov. xix. 21): “ There are
many devices in a n1an’s heart; nevertheless the counsel of the Lord,
that shall stand ;” that, and that only shall stand. Man hath a power
to devise and imagine, but no power to effect and execute of himself
God wants no more po\ver to effect what he will, than he wants
understanding to know what is tit. Well, then, since God wanted
not wisdom to frame his decrees, nor holiness to regulate them, nor
power to effect them, what should make him change them? since
there can be no reason superior to his, no event unforeseen by him,
no holiness comparable to his, no unrighteousnem found in him, no
power e ual to his, to ut a rub in his way.
4th, 'ghough the will) of God be immutable, yet it is not to be un-
derstood so, as that the things themselves so willed are immutable.
Nor will the immutability of the things willed by him, follow upon
the unchangeableness of his will in willing them; though God be
firm in willing them, et he doth not will that they should alway be.
God did not perpetually will the doing those things which he once
decreed to be done; he decreed that Christ should suffer, but he did
not decree that Christ should alway suffer; so he willed the Mosaical
rites for a time, but he did not will that they should alway continue;
he willed that they should endure only for a time; and when the
time came for their ceasing, God had been mutable if he had not put'
an end to them, because his will had ‘dxed such a period. So that
the changing of those things which he had once appointed to be
practhsed, is so far from charging God with changeablcness, that God
would be mutable if he did not take them away; since he decreed as
well their abolition at such a time, as their continuance till such a
I Maxim. Pyriun divert. 3, 30.

