  CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
time; so that the removal of them was ursuant to his unchangeable
will and decree. If God had decreed that such laws should alway
continue, and afterwards changed that decree, and resolved the abro-
gation of them, then indeed God had been mutable; he had rescinded
one decree by another; he had `then seen an error in his iirst resolve,
and there must be some weakness in the reason and wisdom whereon
it was grounded! But it was not so here; for the change of those
laws is so far from slurring God with any mutability, that the very
change of them is no other than the issue of his eternal decree; for
from eternity he purposed in himself to change this or that dispensa-
tion, thou h he did decree to brin such a dispensation into the
world. Tie decree itself was eternal and immutable, but the thing
decreed was temporary and mutable. As a decree from eternity
doth not make the thing decreed to be eternal, so neither doth the
immutability of the decree render the thing so decreed to be immu-
table: as for example, God decreed from all eternity to create the
world; the eternity of this decree did not make the world to be in
being and actually created from eternity; so God decreed immutably
that the world so created should continue for such a time; the decree
is immutable if the world erish at that time, and would not be im-
mutable if the world did endure beyond that time that God hath fixed
for the duration of it: as when a prince orders a man’s remaining in
prison for so many days; if he be prevailed with tpogive him a deliv-
ery before those days, or to continue him in cus for the same
crime aft/er those days, his order is changed; but ify he orders the
delivery of him just at that time, till which he had before decreed
that he should continue in prison, the urpose and order of the
prince remains firm, and the change in thestate of the prisoner is
the fruit of that iirm and fixed resolution: so that we must distin-
guish between the person decreeing, the decree itself, and the thing
ecreed. The person decreeing, viz., God, is in himself immutable,
and the decree is immutable; but the thing decreed may be mutable'
and if it were not changed according to the Hrst purpose, it would
argue the decree itself to be changed; for while a man wills that this
may be done now, and another thing done afterwards, the same will
remains; and though there be a change in the effects, there is no
change in the will.
5th. The immutability of God’s will doth not infringe the liberty
of it. ’l`he liberty of God’s will consists with the necessity of con-
tinuing his purpose. God is necessarily good, immutabl good; yet
he is freely so, and would not be otherwise than what lie is. God
was free in his first pur ose; and purposing this or that b ' an infal-
lible and unerring wisgom, it would be a weakness to change the
purpose. But, indeed, the liberty of God’s will doth not seein so
much to consist in an indi&`erency to this or that, as in an indepen-
dency on anything without himself: his will was free, because it did
not depend u on the objects about which his will was conversant.
To be immutalily good is no point of imperfection, but the height of
rfection.
Pe-1. As God is unchangeable in regard of essence, knowledge, pur-
' Turreutin de Satisfac. p. 266.

