I
ON 'nm nmuranrnrrv or son. 329
pose, so he is unchangeable in regard of place. He cannot be changed
m time, because he is eternity; so he cannot be changed in place,
because he hath ubiquity: he is eternal, therefore cannot be changed
in time; he is omnipresent, therefore cannot be changed in place:
he doth not begin to be in one place wherein he was not before, or
cease to be in a place wherein he was before. He that fills every
place in heaven and earth, cannot change place; he cannot leave
one to Epossess another, that is equally, in regard of his essence, in
all: “ e fills heaven and earth” (Jer.   24). .The heavens that
are not subject to those chan es to which sublunary bodies are sub-
ject, that are not diminished in uantity or quality; yet they are
alway changing place in regard dl their motion; no part of them
doth alway continue in the same point: but God hath no change of
his nature, because he is most inward in everything; he is substan-
tially in all s aces, real and imaginary; there is no part of the world
which he doth not 611; no place can be imagined wherein he doth
not exist. Suppose a million of worlds above and about this, encir-
cling one another; his essence would be in every part and point of
those worlds; because it is indivisible, it cannot be divided; nor can
it be contained within those created limits of millions of worlds, when
the most soaring and best coining fancy hath run through all crea-
tures to the highest sphere of the heavens, and ima 'ned one world
after another, till it can fancy no more: none of ilese, nor all of
these, can contain God; for the “heaven of heavens cannot contain
him” (1 Kings viii. 27); “He is higher than heaven, deeper than
hell” (Job xi. 8% and possesses infinite imaginary spaces beyond
created limits. e who hath no cause of being, can have no limits
of being ;“ and though by creation he began to be in the world, yet
he did not begin to be where the world is, but was in the same imagi-
nary :space from all eternity; for he was alway in himself b(y his own
etem ubi. Therefore observe, that when God_is said to raw near
to us when we draw near to him (James iv. 8), it is not by local
motion or change of place, but by s ial and spiritual influences, by
exciting and supporting grace. ,gcwe ordinarily say, the sun is
mme into the house when yet it remains in its place and order in
tLe heavens, because the beams pierce through the windows and
enlighten the room, so when God is said to come down or descend
(Gen. xi. 5; Exod. xxxiv. 5), it is not by a chan e of place, but a
change of outward acts, when he puts forth himsel? in ways of fresh
mercy or new judgments, in the’efHuxes of his love or the flames of
his wrath. When good men feel the warm beams of his grace refresh-
ing them, or wicked men feel the hot coals of his anger scorching
them. God’s drawing near to us is not so much his coming to us,
but his drawing us to him ;b as when watermen pull a rolpe that is
in one end thstened to the shore, and the other end to t e vessel;
the shore is immovable, yet it seems to the eye to come to them, but
they really move to the shore. God is an immovable rock; we are
floating and uncertain creatures; while he seems to approach to us,
he doth really make us to appioach to him; he comes not to us by
° Gamacheus ut suBra.
* The ancients, as ionysius, expressed it by this similituds.

