1
330 crnumocx ON THE Arrmnnrm.
any change of place himself, but draws us to him by a change of
mind, will, and affections in us.
' II. The second thing propounded, is the reasons to rove God
im nutable. The heathens acknowledged God to be so: Il;‘lato° and
the Pythagoreans called God, or the stable good principle, fhniw,
(dem: the evil principle, Srqm, another thing, changeable; one thing
one time, and another thing another timed (Dan. vi. 26): “He is the
living God, and steadfast forever.”
1. The name Jehovah signifies this attribute (Exod. iii. 14): “I
am that I am; I am hath sent me to you.” It signifies his immuta-
bility as well as eternity. I am, signifies his eternity; that-, or the
same that I am, his immutability :° as it respects the essence of God,
it signifies his unchangeable being from eternity to eternity; as it
respects the creature, it signines his constane in his counsels and
promises, which spring from no other cause gut the unchangeahle-
ness of his nature.f The reason why men stand not to their cove-
nant, is because they are not always the same; I am, that is, I am
the same, before the creation of the world, and since the creation of
the world; before the entrance of sin, and since the entrance of sin;
before their going into Egpt, and while they remain in Egypt.
The very name Jehovahs bears, according to the grammatical order,
a mark of God’s unchangeableness; it never hath anything added to
it, nor anything taken from it; it hath no plural number, no aiiixes
-a custom peculiar to the eastern languages; it never changes its
letters as other words do. That only is a true being which hath not
only an eternal existence, but stability in it: that is not truly a
being, that never remains in the same state.” All things that are
changed cease to be what they were, and begin to be what they were
not, and therefore cannot have the title truly applied to them, they
are; they are, indeed, but like a river in a continual flux, that no
man ever sees the same; let his eye be fixed u on one place of it,
the water he sees, slides away, and that which he saw not succeeds
in its place; let him take his eye off but for the least moment, and
tix it there again, and he sees not the same that he saw before. All
sensible things are in a perpetual stream; that which is sometimes
this and sometimes that, is not, because it is not always the same;
whatsoever is chan ed, is something now which it was not alway;
but of God it is sai I am, which could not be if he were change-
able; for it may be said of him, he is not, as well as he is, because
he is not what he was; if we say not of him, he was, nor he will be,
but only he is, whence should any change arrive? He must invin-
cibly remain the same, of whose nature, perfections, knowledge and
will, it cannot be said it was, as if it were not now in him; or it shall
be, as if' it were not yet in him; but he is, because he doth not only
exist, but doth alway exist the same. I am, that is, I receive from
no other what I am in myself; he depends upon no other in his
° Plato calls God ovioiar- aél éfopévov, lib. i. de Be.
4 Stabilis ue numens dat cuncta moveri. Beet. Consolat. lib. iii. ° Trap. on Exod.
¢ Amyrald, de Trinitat. p. 433. I Spanhe. Synta. Part. I. p. 39.
\ Petav. Theol. Dogmat. Tom. L c. 6. § 6-8.

