ON 'run LMMUTABILITY or con. 331
essence, knowledge, purposes, and therefore hath no changing poweri
over him.
2. If God were changeable, he could not be the most perfect
Being. God is the most perfect Being, and possesses in himself
infinite and essential goodness (Matt. v. 48): “Your heavenly
Father is rfect.” If he could change from that perfection, he
were not th); highest exemplar and copy for us to write after. If
God doth change, it must be either to a greater perfection than he
had before, or to a less, mutalzb per-_/éctiva vel (ll7¢l;931'U(l,' if he
changes to acquire a erfection he had not, then he was not before
the rnwt excellent liieing; necessarily, he was not what he might
be; there was a defect in him, and a privation of that which is bet-
ter than what he had and was; and then he was not alway the
best, and so was _not alway God; and being not alway God, could
never be God; for to begin to be God is against the notion of God;
not to a less perfection than he had; that were to chan c to imper-
fection, and to lose a perfection which he possessed iefore, and
cease to be the best Bcin ; for he would lose some good which he
had, and acquire some evil which he was free from before. So that.
the sovereign erfection of God is an invincible bar to any change
in him; for wliich way soever you cast it for a. change, his supreme
excelleney is impaired and nullcd by it: for in all change there is
something from which a thing is changed, and something to which
it is changed; so that on the one part there is a loss of what it'
had, and on thc other part there is an acquisition of what it had
not. If to the better, he was not perfect, and so was not God; if
to the worse, he will not be perfect, and so be no longer God after
that change. If God be changed, his change must be voluntary or
newssary; if voluntary, he then intends the change for the better,
and chose it to acquire a perfection by it; the will must be carried
out to anything under the notion of some goodness in that which
it desires. Since good is the object of the desire and will of the
creature, evil cannot be the object of the desire and will of the
Creator. And if he should be changed for the worse, when he did
really intend the better, it would speak a defect of wisdom, and a
mistake of that for good which was evil and im rfect in itself;
and if it be for the better, it must be a motion or cliiinge for some-
thing without himself; that which he desircth is not possessed by
himself, but by some other. There is, then, some good without him
and above him, which is the end in this change; for nothing acts
but for some end, and that end is within itself or without itself ; if
the end for which God changes be without himself, then there is
somethin better than himself : besides, if he were voluntarily
changed in the better, why did he not change before? If it \\ ere
for want of power, he had the impcrfection of weakness; if for
want of knowledge of what was the best good, he had the im er-
fection of wisdom, he was ignorant of his own happiness; if) he
had both wisdom to know it, and power to effect it, it must be for
want of will; he_then wanted that love to himself and his own
glory, which is necessary in the Su reme Being. Voluntarily he
zould not be changed for the worse, fic could not be such an enemy

