832 cH.mNocK ON 'nm .vrrnmurns
to his own lory; there is nothing but would hinder its own impcr
fection and liecoming worse. N ecessaril he could not be changed,
for that necessity must arise from himseli, and then the difliculties
spoken of before will recur, or it must arise from another; he can-
not be bettered by another, because nothing hath any good but
what it hath received from the hands of his bounty, and that
without loss to himself, nor made worse; if anything made him
worse, it would be sin, but that cannot touch his essence or obscure
his glory, but in the design and nature of the sin itself (Job xxxv.
6, 7): “If thou sinnest, what dost thou against him? or if thy
transgressions be multi lied, what dost thou unto him? if thou be
righteous, what givest thou him; or what receives he at thy hand Y"
.He hath no addition b' the service of man, no more than the sim
hath of light by a multitude of torches kindled on the earth; nor
any more impair by the sins of men, than the light of the sun
hath by men’s shooting arrows against it.
3. God were not the most simple being if he were not immutable!
There is in everything that is mutable a composition either exem-
tial or accidental; and in all changes, something of the thing
changed remains, and something of it ceaseth and is done away;
as for example, in an accidental change, if a white wall be made
black, it loses its white color; but the wall itself, which was the
subject of that color, remains and loses nothing of its substance:
likewise in a substantial change, as when wood is burnt, the sub-
stantial part of wood is lost, the earthly part is changed into ashes,
the airy part ascends in smoke, the watery part is changed into
air by the fire: there is not an annihilation of it, but a resolution
of it into those parts whereof it was com ounded; and this change
doth evidence that it was compounded) of several parts distinct
from one another. If there were an change in God, it is by sep-
arating something from him, or adding something to him; if by
separating something from him, then he was compounded of some-
thing distinct from himself; for if it were not distinct from himself
it could not be separated &om him without loss of his being ; if by
adding anything to him, then it is a compounding of him, either
substantia ly or accidentally. Mutability is absolutely inconsistent
with simplicity, whether the change come from an internal or exter-
nal principle. If a change be wrought by something without, it
supposeth either contrary or various parts in the thing so changed,
whereof it doth consist; if it be wrought by anything within, it su
poseth that the thing so changed doth consist of one part that dog
change it, and anotheiggart that is changed, and so it would not be
a simple being. If G could be changed by anything within him-
self, all in God would not be God; his essence would depend upon
some parts, whereof some would be superior to others; if one part
were able to change or destro another, that ‘which doth change
would be God, that which is cliyan ed would not be God; so God
would be made up of a Deity and a non-Deitiy, and (part of God
would depend upon God; part would be depen ent, an art would
be independent; part would be mutable, part immutable' so that
l Gamaeh. in prim. part. Aquin. qu. 9. c. 1. part. 72.

