on 'rms IMMUTABILITY or son. 333
mutability is against the notion of God’s inde endency as well as his
simplicity. God is the most simple being; lldr that which is first in
nature, having nothing beyond it, cannot by any means be thought
to be compounded; for whatsoever is so, depends upon the parts
whereof it is compounded, and so is not the first being: now God
being infinitely simple, hath nothing in himself which is not himself,
and therefore cannot will any change in himself, he being his own
essence and existence*
4. God were not eternal if he were mutable. In all change there
is somethin that perishes, either substantially or accidentally. All
change is aiind of death, or imitation of death; that which was dies,
and begins to be what it was not. The soul of man, though it ceas-
eth not to be and exist, yet when it ceaseth to be in quality what it
was, is said to die. Adam died when he changed from integrity to
corruption, though both his soul and body were in being (Gen. ii.
IT); and the soul of a regenerate man is said to “die to sin," when
it is changed from sin to grace (Rom. vi. 11). In all change there is
aresemblance of death; so the notion of mutability is against the
eternity of God. If anything be acquired biy a change, then that
which is acquired was not from eternity, an so he was not wholly
eternal; if anything be lost which was from eternity, he is not wholly
everlasting; if he did decrease by the change, something in him
which had no beginning would have an end; if he did increase by
that change, something in him would have a beginning that might
have no end. What is changed doth not remain, and what doth not
remain is not eternal) Though God alway remains in regard of
existence, he would be immortal, and live alway; yet if he should
sutfer any change, he could not properly be eternal, because he
would not alway be the same, and would not in every art be eter-
nal; for all change is Hnished in time, one moment preceding, another
moment following; but that which is before time cannot be changed
by time. God cannot be eternally what he was; that is, he cannot
have a true eternity, if he had a new knowledge, a new purpose, a
new essence; if he were sometimes this and sometimes that, some-
times know this and sometimes know that, sometimes purpose this
and afterwards hath a new purpose; he would be artlv temporar
and partly eternal, not truly and universally eternall. He that hath
anything of newness, hath not properly and trul an entire eternity.
Again, by the same reason that God could in tliye least cease to be
what he was, he might also cease wholl to be; and no reason can
be rendered why God might not cease wholly to be, as well as cease
Q0 be entirely and uniformly what he was. All changeableness
implies a corruptibility.
5. If God were changeable, he were not infinite and almi hty.
All change ends in addition or diminution; if an thing be added,
he was not infinite before, if anything be diminislied, he is not in-
finite after. All change implies bounds and limits to that which is
Changed; but God is infinite; “His greatness is unsearchablc:"'“
We can add number to number without any end, and can conceive
' Ficinm Zlchar. mitylen in Peta Tom. I. p. 189.
.‘ Austin in Pet Tom. I. p. 201. ' Pl. cxlv. 8, *CFI me no end, no term.

