`
334 cnanxocx ON THE A'rrn1BU'r1:s.
an infinite number; yet the geatness of God is beyond all our <‘on»
ceptions. But if there coul be any change in his greatness forthe
better, ii; would not; ‘tae unsearcpalgle bgforeh tha; change f ge the
worse 1 wou no e unsearc 1a e a er a c ange. a ver
hath liirnits and is changeable, is conceivable and searchable; but
God is not only not known, but impossible in his own nature to be
known and searched out, and, therefore, impossible to have any
diminution in his nature. All that which is changed arrives to some-
thing which it was not before, or ceaseth ir<_Vpart_to be what it was
before. He would not also be almighty. r iat is omnipotent can-
not be made worse; for to be made worse, is in part to be corrupted.
If he be made better, he was not almighay before; something of'
power was wanting to him. If there shoul   any change it must
proceed from himself or from another; if from hlmselfi it woiild be an
inability to preserve himself in the perfection of his nature ; if from
another he would be inferior in strenffth knowledge and power to
that which changes him, either in histilature, knowledge, or will; in
both an inability ° an inability in him to continue the same, or an
inability in him tb resist the power of another.
6. 'Ihe World could not be ordered and governed but by some
Principle or Being which were immutable. Principles are alway
more fixed and stable than things which proceed from those princi-
ples' and this IS true both in morals and naturals. Principles in
conscience, whereby men are governed, remain firmly engraven in
tl' `d. Th tl' fi lf' tl trth 'h`l b. -h .
sliidliciiuiiish the iihoi Elie rlibfivleriis, llieerbauseiiof ;en;;i>.1doiis, dz
more firm and stable than those things which are wrought by their
influence. All things in the world are moved by some power and
virtue which is stablzd; and unless it were so, no order would be ob-
seriygl infniptiop, po tmotipn epuld bac ilegigarly coigtpliued. llc cfoiild
no eau saisacion o lem me esireo esouso is
people. Nothing can truly satisfy the soul of man but rest; and
not ring can give it rest but that which is perfect and immutably per-
fect ' for else it would be subject to those avitations and variations
whidh the being it depends upon is* subject   The principle of _all
things must be immutable," wluch lS described by some by a unity,
the principle of number, wherein there is a resemblance of God's
unchangeablcness. A unit is not variable ; it continues in its own
nature immutably a unit. _ It never varies from itself; it cannot be
changed from itself ; but is, as it were, so omnipotent towards others,
that it changes all numbers. _ If you add any number, it is the be-
ginning of_ that number, but th_e_unit is not increased by 1t;_a new
number ariseth from that addition, but the un1t still remains the
same and adds value to other iiffures but receives none from them.
Ill. The third thing to speaktlo is: that immutabi_lity_is proper to
God, and lncommumcable to any creature. Mutabihty is natural to
eyegyderegure :is a eregtlitze, and immiétalflity iskthe sple perfectitmgn
0 o. eonyism n1 wistom a e o ore now uureeven;
he only is infinitely powerful, able to call forth all means to effect;
so that wanting neither wisdom to contrive, nor strength to executr,
I Folherby Atheonxastix, p. 308. Gerhard loo. com.

