' ON 'mn Imrnranrnrrv or son. 335
he cannot alter his counsel. None being above him, nothing in him
contrary to him, and being defective in no blessedness and perfec-
tion, he cannot vary in his essence and nature. Had not immuta-
bilityas well as eternity been a property solely pertaining to the
Divine nature, as well as creative power and eternal diuation, the
apostles argument to prove Christ to be God from this perpetual
samenes, had come short of any convincing strength. These words
of the text he applies to Christ (Heb. i. 10-12): “They shall be
changed, but thou art the same.” There had been no strength in
the reason, if immutability by nature did belong to any creature.
The changeableness of all creatures is evident:
1. Of co oreal creatures it is evident to sense. All plants and
animals, asrtlhey have their duration bounded in certain limits; so
while they do exist, they proceed from their rise to their fall. The_
pass through man sensib e alterations, from one degree of growth
to another, from buds to blossoms, from blossoms to flowers and
fruits. They come to their pitch that nature had set them, and re-
turn back to the state from whence the sprung; there is not a day
but they make some acquisition, or suliilar some loss. They die and
spring up everly day; nothing in them more certain than their in~
constancy : “ he creature is subject to vanity” (Rom. viii. 20). The
heavenly bo`dies are changing their place; the sun every day is run-
ning his race, and stays not in the same point; and though they are
not changed in their essence, yet they are in their place. Some, in-
deed, say there is a continual generation of light in the sun, as there
is a loss of light by the casting out its beams, as in a fountain there
is a flowing out of the streams, and a continual generation of supply.
And though these heavenly bodies have kept their standing and
motion from the time of their creation, yet both the sun s standing
still in Joshua’s time, and its going back in Hezekiah’s time, show
that they are changeable at the pleasure of God. But in man the
change is perpetual] visible; every day there is a change from
ignorance to knowledyge, from one will to another, from passion to
passion, sometimes sad and sometimes cheerful, sometimes craving
this, and presently nauseating it; his body changes from health to
sickness, or from weakness to strength; some alteration there is
either in body or mind. Man, who is the noblest creature, the sub-
ordinate end of the creation of other things, cannot assure himself
of a consistencv and fixedness in anything the short space of a day,
110, not of a minute. All his months are months of vanity (Job vii.
3); whence the Psalmist calls man at the “best estate altogether
vanity,” a mere heap of vanity (Ps. xxxv.) As he contains in his
nature the nature of all creatures, so he inherits in his nature the
vanity of all creatures. A little world, the centre of the world and
of the vanity of the world ; yea., “lighter than vanity” (Ps. lxii. 9),
more movable than a feather; tossed between passion and passion,
dailly changing his end, and changing the means; an image of
not in _
2. Siiritual natures, as angels. They change not in their being,
but that is from the indulgence of God. They change not in their
goodness, but that is not hum their nature, but divine grace in their

