836 CHABNOCK ON 'rss Arrammms
confirmation: but they change in their knowledge; they know more
by Christ than they did by creation (1 Tim. iii. 16). They have an
addition of knowledge every day, by the providential dispensations
of God to his church (Eph. iii. 10); and the increase of their aston-
ishment and love fi-= according to the increase of their knowledge and
insight. They cannot have a new discovery without new aflmira-
tions of what is discovered to them : there is a change in their joy
when there is a change in a sinner (Luke xv. 10). They wcic
changed in their essence, when they were made such glorious spirits
of nothing; some of them were changed in their will, when of holy
they became impure. The good angels were changed in their under-
standings, when the glories of God in Christ were presented to their
view; and all can be chan d in their essence again; and as they
were made of nothin , so Ee the power of God may be reduced to
nothing again So gl-Ioriiedy souls shall have an unchanged opera*
tion about God, for they shall behold hui thee without any grief or
fear of loss, without vagrant thoughts; but they can never be un-
changeable in their nature, because they can never pass from Hnitc
to in nite.
No creature can be unchangeable in its nature :-1. Because every
creature rose from nothing. As they rose from nothing, so they
tend to nothing; unless they are preserved by God. The notion of
a creature spies. s changeab eness; because to be a creature is to he
made sornet ing of nothing, and, therefore, creation is a change of
nothing into somethin . The being of a creatine begins from
change, and, therefore, gre essence of a creature.is subject to change.
God only is uncreated, and, therefore, unchangeable. If he were
made he could not be immutable; for the very making is a change
of not being into being. All creatures were made good, as they
were the fruits of Gods goodness and power; but must needs be
mutable, because they were the extracts of nothing. - 2. Because
every creature depends p'l11`8ly upon the will of God. They depend
not upon themselves, but upon another for their being. As they
received their being from the word of his mouth and the arm of his
power, so by the same word they can be cancelled into nothing, and
retiun into as little significancy as when they were nothing. He that
created them by a word, can by a word destroy them: if God should
“ take away their breath, they die, and return into their dust” (Ps.
civ. 222). As it was in the power of the Creator that things might
be, be ore they actually werc, so it is in the power of the Creator
that things after they are may cease to be what they are 5 and they
are, in their own nature, as reducible to nothing as they were pro-
ducible by the power of God from nothing; for there needs no
more than an act of God’s will to null them, as there needed only
an act of God’s will to make them. Creatures are all subject to a
higher cause: they are all reputed as nothing. “He doth accord-
ing to his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants
of the earth, and none can stay his hand, or say unto him, Wliat
dost thou ?" (Dan. iv. 35%o But God is unchangeable, because he is
the highest ood; none a ve him, all below him; all dependent on
him; himself upon none. 3. No creature is absolutely perfect Nc

