on 'nm nmumnrmrr or son. 337
creature can be so perfect, or can ever be, but something by the in-
Enite power of God may be added to it; for whatsoever is finite
may receive greater additions, and., therefore, a change. No creature
you can imagine, but in your thoughts you ma fancy him ca able
of greater perfections than lyou know he hatli, or than realliy he
hath. The perfections of al creatures are searchable; the perfec-
tion of God is only unsearchable (Job xi. 6), and, therefore, he only
immutable. God only is always the same. Time makes no addition
to him, nor diminisheth anything of him. His nature and essence
his wisdom and will, have always been the same from etemity, and
shall be the same to eternity, without any variation.
IV. The fourth thing ropounded is, Some propositions to clear
this unchangeableness ofp God from anything that seems contrary
to li.
Prqa. I. There was no change in God when he began to create
the world in time. The creation was a real chan but the change
was not subjectively in God, but in the creature; 5; creatine began
to be what it was not before. Creation is considered as active or
pfsivey Active creation is the will and power of God to create.
` is from eternity, because God willed from eternity to create in
time; this never had beginning, for God never began in time to un-
derstand anythin , to will an fthing, or to be able to do an thing;
but he alwa. understood and) alway willed 'those things wliich he
determined fiiom eternity to produce in time. The decree of God
may be taken for the act decreeing, that is eternal and the same,
or for the object decreed, that is in time; so that there may be a
change in the object, but ,not in the will whereby the object doth
Exist.
1. There was no change in God by the act of creation, because
there was no new will in him. There was no new act of his will
which ww not before. The creation began in time, but the will of
creating was from eternity. The work was new, but the decree
whence that new work s rung was as ancient as the Ancient of
Days. When the time of) creating came, God was not made ea: no-
lente volens, as we are; for whatsoever God willed to be now done,
he willed from eternit to be done; but he willed also that it
should not be done tillysuch an instant of time, and that it should
not exist before such a time. If God had willed the creation of
the world only at that time when the world was produced, and
not before, then, indeed, God had been changeable. But though
God spake that word which he had not spoke before, whereby t e
world was brought into act; yet he did not will that will he willed
not before. God did not create by a new counsel or new will, but
by that which was from eternity (Eph. i. 93. All things are wrought
according tn that “purpose in himself,” an according to ‘f the coun-
sel of his will” (ver. 11); and as the holiness of the elect is the fruit
cf his eternal will “ before the foundation of the world" (ver. 4), so,
llliewise, is the existence of things, and of those persons whom he
did elect. As when an artificer frames a house or a temple according
¥0that model he had in his mind some years before, there is no change
° Gamachin Pai-tI.Aqnin.Q9.c.i.p.72.
VOI. I.-22

