838 ciunuocx ON 'run yrrnmurns.
in the model in his mind; the artificer is the same, though the work
is produced by him some time after he had framed that cop(y of it in
his own mind, but there is ,a change of the thing produce by him
according to that model. Or, when a rich man intends, four or Eve
years hence, if he lives, to build a hospital, is there may change in
will, when, after the expiration of that time, he builds an endows it?
Though it be after his will, yet it is the fruit of his precedent will.
So God, from all eternity, did will and command that the creatures
should exist in such a part of time; and, by his eternal will, all
things, whether past, present, or to come, did, do, and shall exist,
at that point of time which that will did appoint for them': not, as
though God had a new will when things stood up in being, but only
that which was prepared in his immutable counsel and will from
eternity, doth then ap ar. There can be no instant fixed from eter-
nity, wherein it can E; said, God did not will the creation of the
world; for had the will of God for the shortest moment been unde-
termined to the creation of the world, and afterwards resolved upon
it, there had been a moral change in God from not willing to willing;
but this there was not, for God executes nothing in time which he
had not ordained from eternity, and appointed all the means and
circumstances whereby it should be brought about. As the deter-
mination of our Saviour to suffer was not a new   but an_ eternal
counsel, and wrou ht no change in God (Acts   23).
2. There is no cliange in God by the act of creation, because there
was no new ower in (rod. Had God had a will at the time of are
ation which he had not before, there had been a moral chan e in
him ; so had there been in him a power only to create then and not
before, there had been a physical change in him from weakness to
ability. There can be no more new power in God, than there can be
a new will in God; for his will is his power, and what he willeth to
effect, that he doth effect: as he was unchangeably holy, so he was
unchangeably almighty, “which was, and is, and is to come" (Rev.
iv. 8); which was almighty, and is almiiliity, and ever will be al-
mighty. The work therefore makes no c nge in God, but there is
a change in the thing wrought by that power of God. Sléppose you
had a seal engraven upon some metal a hundred years ol , or as old
as the creation, and you should this day, so many ages after the en-
graving of it, make an impression of that seal upon wax; would you
say the engravement upon the seal were changed, because it pro-
duced that stamp upon the wax now which it did not before? NO,
the change is purely in the wax, which receives a new fi ure or form
by the im ression; not in the seal, that was capable 0? imprinting
the same llong before. God was the same from eternity as he was
when he made a signature of himself upon the creatures by creation,
and is no more changed by stamping them into several forms, than
the seal is changed b making impression upon the wax. As when
a house is enlightened b the sun, or that which was cold is heated ly
it, there is a change in the house from darkness to light, from col -
ness to heat; but is there any change in the light and heat of the sun?
There is a change in the thing enlightened or warmed b that light
and heat which remains fixed and constant in the sun, which was al

