on rms: IHHUTABILITY or son. 339
calpable in itself to produce the same effects before, as at that instant
w en it works them; so when God is the author of a. new work, he
is not changed, because he works it by an eternal will and an eternal
wer.
POS. Nor is there any new relation acquired by God by the creation
of the world. There was a new relation acquired b the creature,
as, when a. man sins, he hath another relation to God than he had
before,-“he hath relation to God, as a criminal to fa Judge; but there
is no change in God, but in the malefactor. The being of men
makes no more change in God than the sins of men. As a tree is
now on our right hand, and by our turning about it is on our left
hand, sometimes before us, sometimes behind us, according to our
motion near it or about it, and the turning of the body; there is no
change in the tree, which remains ‘drm and fixed in the earth, but
the change is wholly in the posture of the bod , whereby the tree
may be said to be before us or behind us, or on the right hand or on
the left hand.P God gained no new relation of Lord or Creator by
the creation; for though he had created nothing to rule over, et he
had the power to create and rule, though he did not create amiyrulez
as a man may be called a skilful writer, though he does not write,
because he is able to do it when he pleases; or a man skilful in
physic is called a physician, though he doth not practise that skill,
or discover his art in the distribU,ion of medicines, because he may
do it when he pleases; it depends upon his own will to show his
art when he has a mind to it. So the name Creator and Lord belongs
to God from eternity, because he could create and rule, though he
did not create and rule. But, howsoever, if there were an such
change of relation, that God may be called Creator and Lord’ after
the creation and not before, it is not a change in essence, nor in
knowledge, nor in will; God gains no perfection nor diminution by
it; his knowledge is not increased by it; he is no more by it than he
was, and will be, if all those things ceased; and therefore Austin
illustrates it b this similitude :-as a piece of money when it is given
as the rice oi? a thinfr, or deposited only as a pled e for the securit
of a tiiing borrowed); the coin is the same, and is not changed:
though the relation it had as a pledge and as a price be different
from one another: so that suppose any new relation be added, yet
thlere is nothing happens to the nature of God which`may infer any
c ange.
Prog. II. There was no change in the Divine nature of the Son,
when e assumed human nature. There was an union of the two
natures, but no change of the Deity into the humanity, or of the
humanity into the Deity: both preserved their peculiar properties.
The humanity was changed by a communication of excellent gifts
from the divine nature, not by being brought into an equality with
it, for that was im ossible that a creature should become equal to the
Creator. He took) the “form of a servant,” but he lost not the form
of God; hc despoilcd not himself of the perfections of the Deity. He
was indeed emptied, “ and became of no reputation” (Phil. ii. 7); but
he did not cease to be God, though he was reputed to be only a' man,
P Petav. Theol. Dogmat. Tom. L

