  CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
and a very mean one too. The glory of his divinity was not extin-
guished nor diminished, though it was obsc\n°ed and darkened, under
the veil of our infirmities; but there was no more change in the
hiding of it, than there is in the body of the sun when it is shadowed
by the interposition of a cloud. His blood while it was pouring out
from his veins was the “blood of God” (Acts xx. 28); and, there-
fore, when he was bowing the head of his humanity upon the cross,
he had the nature and perfections of God; for had he ceased to be
God, he had been a mere creature, and his sufferings would have
been of as little value and satisfaction as the sufferings of a creature.
He could not have been a sutiicient Mediator, had he ceased to be
God: and he had ceased to be God, had he lost any one erfection
proper to the divine nature; and losing none, he lost not this of un-
changeableness, which is none of the meanest belonging to the Deity.
Why b his union with the human nature should he lose this, any
more than he lost his omniscience, which he discovered by his
knowledge of the thoughts of men; or his mere ', which he mani-
fested to the height in the time of his suiferin il That is truly A
change, when a thing ceaseth to be what it was iefore: this was not
in Christ; he assumed our nature without laying aside his oim.
When the soul is united to the body, doth it lose an ' of those per-
fections that are pro er to its nature? Is there any change either in
the substance or quallities of it? No; but it makes a change in the
body, and of a dull lump it, makes it a living mass, conveys vigor
and strength to it, and, by its power, quickens it to. sense and
motions! So did the divine nature and human remain entire; there
was no change of the one into the other, as Christ by a miracle
changed water into wine, or men bly art change sand or ashes into
glass: and when he prays “forthe g ory he had with God before the
world was” (John xvii. 5), he prays that a glory he had in his Deity
might shine forth in his person as Mediator, and be evidenced in
that height and splendor suitable to his dignity, which ~had been so
lately darkened by his abasement; that as he had appeared to be the
Son of Man in the infirmity of the iiesh, he might appear to be the
Son of God in the glory of his person, that he might appear to be the
Son of God and the Son of Man in one person! Again, there could
be no change in this union; for, in la real change, something is
acquired which was not possessed before, neither formally nor emi-
nently: but the divinity had from eternity; before the incarnation,
all the perfections of the human nature eminently in a. nobler man-
ner than they are in themselves, and therefore could not be changed
by a real union.”
Prop. III. Repentance and other affections ascribed to God in
&ripture, argue no change in God. We often read of God’s repent-
ing, repenting of the good he promised (Jer. xviii. 10), and o the
evil he threatened (Exod. xxxii. 14; John iii. 10), or of the work he
hath wrought (Gen. vi. 6). We must observe, t erefore, that,
1. Repentance is not properly in God. He is a pure Spirit, and
is not capable of those passions which are signs of weakness and im-
1 Zmeb. de Immutnb. Dei. ' Goulart de Immutsb. do Dieu.
° G\maehinPnrtLAquin.Qu.9.e.i.

