ON rm: nnfuranrnrrv or Gon. 341
potence, or subject to those regrets we are subject to. Where there
is a proper repentance there is a want of foresight, an ignorance of
what would succeed, or a defect in the examination of the occiurences
which might fall within consideration. All repentance of a fact is
grounded upon a mistake in the event which was not foreseen, or
upon an after knowledge of the evil of the thing which was acted
by the person repenting. But God is so wise that he cannot err, so
holy he cannot do evil; and his certain prescience, or foreknowledge,
secures him aglainst any unexpected events. God doth not act but
upon clear an infalhb e reason; and a change upon passion is ac
counted b all so great a weakness in man, that none can entertain
so unworthy a conceit of God. Where he is said to repent (Gen.
vi. 6), he is also said to grieve; now no proper grief can be imagined
to be in God. As repentance is inconsistent with infallible foresight,
so is grief no lem inconsistent with undefiled blessednem. God is
“blessed forever" (Rom. ix. gg; and therefore nothing can befall
him that can stain that blesse ess. His blessedness would be im-
paired and interrupted while he is repenting, though he did soon
rectify that which is the cause of his repentance. “God is of one
mind, and who can turn him? what his soul desires that he doth”
Job xxiii. 13 .
( 2. But God) accommodates himself in the Scripture to our weak
capacity. God hath no more of a proper repentance, than he hath
of a real body; though he, in accommodation to our weakness, as~
cribes to himself the members of our bodies to set out to our imder-
standing the greatness of his perfections, we must not conclude him
abody like us; so, because he is said to have anger and repentance,
we must not conclude him to have passions like us. When we can-
not fully comprehend him as he is, he clothes himself with our
nature in his expressions that we may apprehend him as we are able,
and b an inspection into ourselves, learn something of the nature
of Godi; yet those human ways of speaking ought to be understood
in a manner a eeable to the infinite excellency and majesty of God,
and are only dgsigned to mark out something in God which hath
a resemblance with something in us; as we cannot s eak to God as
5055, but as men, so we cannot understand him spealking to us as a
od, unless he condescend to speak to us like a man. God there-
fore frames his language to our dulness, not to his own state, and
informs us by our own hrases, what he would have us learn of his
nature, as nurses talk groken language to young children. In all
such expressions, therefore, we must ascribe the perfection we con-
ceive in them to God, and lay the imperfection at the door of the
Creatllre.
3. Therefore, repentance in God is only a change of his outward
Oouduct, according to his infallible foresight and immutable will.
He changes the way of his rovidential proceeding according to the
Carriage of the creature, without changing his will, which is the rule
of his providence. When God s eaks of his repenting “that he had
made man” (Gen. vi. 6), it istonly his changing his conduct from a
Way of kindness to a way of severity, and is a word suited to our
wpacities to signify his detestation of sin, and his resolution to pun-

