842 CHARNOCK oN THE Arrnmurns.
ish it, after man had made himself quite another thin , than God
had made him; “it repents me,” that is, I am purposeg to destroy
the world, as he that repents of his work throws it away;' as if a
potter cast away the vessel he had framed, it were a testimony that
e repented that ever he took pains about it, so the destruction of
them seems to be a repentance in God that ever he made them; it is
a change of events, not of counsels. Repentance in us is a grief for
a former fact, and a chanving of our course in it; rief is not in God,
but his repentance is awil ng a thing should notie as it was, which
will was Hxed from eternity; for God, foreseeing man would fall, and
decreeing to permit it, he could not be said to repent in time of what
he did not re ent from eternity; and therefore, if there were no re-
pentance in god from eternity, there could be none in time." But
God is said to repent when he changes the disposition of affairs with-
out himself; as men, when they repent, alter the course of their ac-
tions, so God alters things, extra sc, or without himself, but changes
nothing, of hi_s own purpose within himself It rather notes ,the
action e is about to do, than an thing in his own nature, or any
change in his eternal purpose. gods repenting of his kindness is
nothing but aninflictin of punishment, which the creature by the
change of his ca.rri . e iath merited: as his' repenting of the evil
threatened is the wiliholding the punishment denounced, when the
creature hath humbly submitted to his authority, and acknowledged
his crime. . Or else we may understand those expressions of joy, and
grief; and repentance, to signify thus much, that the thin declared
to be the objects of jo ,and grief, and repentance, are of tliit nature,
that if God were capable of our passions, he would discover himself
in such eases as we do; as when the prophets mention the joys and
alpplaudings of heaven, earth, and the sea, they only signify that the
t nngs they speak of are so good, that if the heavens and the sea had
natures capable of joy, they would express it upon that occasion in
Buch a manner as we do; so would God have joy at the obedience
of men, and grief at the unworthy carriage of men, and repent of his
kindness when men abuse it, and repent of his punishment when
men reform under his rod, were the majesty of his nat1u°e capable
of such affections!
Prop. IY. The not fulnlling of some redictions in Scripture,
which seem to imply a changeableness of? the Divine will, do not
argue any change m it. As when he reprieved Hezekiah from
death, after a message sent by the prophet Isaiah, that he should
die (2 Kings xx. 1-5; Isa. xxxviii. 1-52; and when he made an
arrest of that judgment he had threatened y Jonah against Nineveh
(Jon. iii. 4-10). There is not, indeed, the same reason of promises
and threatenings altogether; for in promising, the obligation lies
upon God, and the right to demand is in the party that erforms the
condition of the promise: but in threatenings, the obligation lies
upon the sinner, and God’s right to punish is declared thereby; so
that though God doth not punish, his will is not changed, because
his will was to declare the demerit of sin, and his rig t to punish
\ Mer-wr in loc. ' Petavius Theol. Dogmat.
'_ Daille, in Sermon on 2 Pot.   9. p. 80.

