ON 'ran IMMUTABILITY or son. 343
upon the commission of it; though he may not punish according to
the strict letter of the threatenin the person sinning, but relax his
own law for the honor of his attriutes, and transfer the unishment
from the offender to a person substituted in his room: this was the
case in the first threatening against man, and the substituting a Surety
in the place of the malefactor. But the answer to these cases isthis,
that w ere we find predictions in Scripture declared, and yet not
executed, we must consider them, not as absolute but conditional, or
as the civil law calls it, an interlocutory sentence.Y God declared
what would follow by natural causes, or b the demerit of man, not
what he would absolutely himself do : ami, in many of those predic-
tions, thoufrh the condition be not ex ressed, yet it is to be under-
stood; so the promises of God are to be understood, with the con-
dition of perseverance in well doing; and threatenings, with a clause
of revocation annexed to them, provided that men re ent: and this
God lays down as a general case, alway to be remembered as a rule
forthe interpreting his threatenings against a nation, and the same
reason will hold in threatenings against a particular person. (Jer.
  7-10) “ At what instant shall speak concerning a nation, and
concerning a kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and destroy
it; if that nation, against whom I have pronounced, turn from then'
evil, I will repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them ;” and
so when he speaks of planting a nation, if they do evil, he will re-
pent ofthe good, &c. It is a universal rule by which all particular
cases of this nature are to be tried; so that when man’s re entance
arrives, God remains iirm in his tirst will, always e ual toliimself;
and it is not he that changes, but man. For since ihe inte osition
of the Mediator, with an eye to whom God governed the worigd after
the fall, the right of punishing was taken oii` if men repented, and
mercy was to flow out, if by a conversion men returned to their duty
(Huck. xviii. 20, 21). This, I say, is grounded u on God’s entertain-
mg the Mediator ; for the covenant of works discovered no such
thing as repentance or pardon. Now these general rules are to be
the interpreters of articular cases: so that predictions of good are
not to be counted absolute, if men return to evil; nor predictions of
efil. if men be thereby reduced to a repentance of their crimes. S0
hmeveh shall be destroyed, that is, according to the general rule,
links the inhabitants repent, which they did ; they manifested a
belief of the threatening, and gave glory to God by iving credit to
the prophet: and they had a notion of this rule God lays down in
the other prophets; for they had an apprehension that, upon their
humbling themselves, they might escape the threatened vengeance,
Ind stop the shooting those arrows that were ready in the bow!
Though Jonah proclaimed destruction without declarin any ho es
Of an arrest of judgment, yet their natural notion of god a.fford)ed
mic natural hopes of relief if they did their duty, and spurned not
Sgrunst the prophet’s message ; and therefore, saith one, God did
not always express this condition, because it was needless; his own
rule revealed in Scripture was sufhcient to some; and the natural
notion all men had o God’s goodness upon their repentance, made
I l§vetinGenes. cxercitu. 51. p. 218. ' Saudersoxfs Sermon, Part II. p. 167 158.

