844 crmnsocx ON nm Armmnres.
it not absolutely necessary to declare it. And besides, saith he, itil
bootless; the expressing it can do but little good; secure ones will
repent never the sooner, but rather presume upon their hopes of
God’s forbearance, and linger out their zelpentance till it be too late.
And to work men to repentance, whom e hath osed to spare,
he threatens them with terrible judgments; whichqiufiow much the
more terrible and _peremptory they are, are likely to he more effectual
for that end God in his p\u'pose esigns them; viz. to humble them
under a sense of their demerit, and an acknowledgment of his right
eousjustice; and, therefore, though they be absolutely denounced,
yet they are to be conditionally interpreted with a reservation of
repentance. As for that answer which one gives, that by forty days
was not meant forty natural days, but forty pro(phetical days, that is
years, a day for a year; and that the city was estroyed forty years
after by the Medes; the expression of God’s repentmg upon their
humiliation puts a bar to that interpretation ; God repented, that is,
he did not brin the punishment upon them according to those days
the prophet hadg ex ressed; and, therefore, forty natural days are to
be understood; and) if it were meant fort ears, and they were
destroyed at the end of that term, how could god be said to repent,
since according to that, the punishment threatened was, according
to the time fixed, brought upon them? and the destruction of it
forty years after will notqbe easily evinced, if Jonah lived in the time
of J eroboam, the second king of Israel, as he did (2 Kings xiv.  
and Nineveh was destroyed in the time of Josiah, king of Ju
But the other answer is plain. God did not fulfil what he had
threatened, because they reformed what they had committed: when
the threatening was made, they were a 'tit object for justice; but
when they re ented, they were afit object for a merciful respite.
To threaten wlien sins are high, is a part of Grod’s justice; not to
execute when sins are revoked by repentance, is a part of God's
goodness. And in the case of Hezekiah (2 Kings xx. 1, 5), Isaiah
comes with a message from God, that he should “set his house in
order," for he shall die; that is, the disease was mortal, and no out~
ward a> lications could in their own nature resist the distemper:
“ Behold: I will add to thy days fifteen years; I will heal thee" Lisa.
xxxviii. 1, 5t). It seems to me to be one entire message, because the
latter art 0 -it was so suddenly after the other committed to Isaiah,
to be delivered to Hezekiah ; for he was not gone out of the king`s
house, before he was ordered to return with the news of his health,
by an extraordinary indulgence of God against the power of nature
and force of the disease, “ Behold, I will add to thy life ;” noting 11
as an extraordinary thing; he was in the second court of the king’|
house when this word came to him (2 Kin@ xx. 4) ; the king’s house
having three courts, so that he was not gone above half-way out of
the palace. God mirfht send this message of death, to revent the
pride Hezekiah mi Clit swell with for his deliverance fiiom Senna
cherib: as Paul haf a messenger of Satan to buffet him to prevent
his lifting up (2 Cor. xii. 7); and this good man was subject to this
sin, as we find afterwards in the case of the Babylonish ambassadors;
and God delayed this other part of the message to humble him, and

