ON 'mn I1IHU'l'A.BILITY or son. 845
draw out his prayer: and as soon as ever he found Hezekiah in this
temper, he sent saiah with a comfortable message of recovery; so
that the will of God was to signif to him the mortality of his dis-
temper, and afterwards to relieve   by a message of an extraordi-
nary recovery.
Prop. V. God is not changed, when of loving to any creatures he
becomes angry with them, or of angry he becomes appeased. The
change in these cases is in the creature; according to the alteration
in the creature, it stands in a various relation to God: an innocent
creature is the object of his kindness, an offending crea.ture is the ob-
ject of his anger; there is a change in the dispiensations of God, as
there is a change in the creature making himse capable of such dis-
pesnsations. God always acts according to the immutable nature of
` holiness, and can no more chan e in his affections to ood and
evil, than he can in his essence. Wghen the devils, now Edin, stood
as glorious angels, they were the objects of God’s love, because holy;
when they fel , they were the ob'ects of God’s hatred, because im-
pure; the same reason which made him love them while they were
pure, made him hate them when they were criminal. The reason
of his various dispensations to them was the same in both, as con-
sidered in God, his immutable holiness; but as res ectin the crea-
ture, diiferent; the nature of the creature was chan ed, but the
Divine hol nature of God remained the same: “ Wgth the ure
thou wilt slilow th self pine, and with the iroward, thou wilt sliow
thyself froward" (gs. xviii. 212: he isa. refreshing light to those that
obey him, and a consuming re to those that resist him. Though
the same angels were not always loved, et the same reason that
moved him to love them, moved him to hate them. It had argued
a change in God if he had loved them alway, in whatsoever posture
they were towards him; it could not be counted love, but a weak-
nem and impotent fondness; the change is in the object, not in the
atfection of God; for the object loved before is not beloved now, be-
cause that which was the motive of love, is not now in it; so that
the creature having a different state from what it had, falls under a
diferent affection or d' nsation. It had been a mutable affection
in God to love that whiizxzhewas not worthy of love with the same love
wherewith he loved that which had the greatest resemblance to him-
self; 'had God loved the fallen angels in that state and for that state,
he had hated himself, because he had loved that which was contrary
to himself and the image of his own holiness, which made them ap-
pear before, good in his si ht. The will of God is unchangeably set
to love righteousness and hate iniquity, and from this hatred to
punish it; and if a righteous creature contracts the wrath of God, or
a sinful creature hath the communications of God’s love, it must be
by a change in themselves. Is the sun changed when it hardens
one thing and softens another, according to the disposition of the
several subjects? Or when the sun makes a flower more fragrant,
and a dead carcass more noisome? There are divers eifects, but the
reason of that diversity is not in the sun, but in the subject; the sun
l8 the same, and produceth those diferent eifects b the same quality
of heat; so if an unholy soul approach to God, god looks angrily

