346 - cnamvocx ON 'mn A'rrnmU'rEs.
upon him ; if a holy soul come before him, the same immutable per
fection in God draws out his kindness towards him : as some think,
1 the sun would rather refresh than scorch us, if our bodies were of
the same nature and substance with that luminary. As the will of
God for creating the world was no new, but an eternal will, though it
manifested itself in time, so the will of God for the punishment of sin,
or the reconciliation of the sinner, was no new will: though his wrath
in time break out in the effects of it upon sinners, and his love Hows
out in the effects of it u on penitents. Christ by his death reconciling
God to man, did not alter the will of God, but did what was conso-
nant to his eternal will; he came not to change his will, but to exe-
cute his will: “ Lo, I cometo do thy will, O God” (Heb. x. 7). And
the grace of God in Christ was not a new grace, but an old graceina.
new appearance; “ the grace of God hath appeared” (Tit. i. 11).
Prop. VI. A change of laws b God argues no change in God,
when God abrogates some laws which he had settled in the church,
and enacts others. I spake of this something the last day; I shall
only add this: God commanded one thing to the Jews, when the
church was in an infant state; and removed those laws, when the
church came to some growth. The elements of the World were suited
to the state of children (Gal. iv. 3). A mother feeds not the infant
with the same diet as she doth when it is grown up. Our Saviour
ac uainted not his disciples with some things at one time which he
did at another, because they were not able to bear them: where
was the change; in Christ’s will, or in their growth from a state of
weakness to that of strength? A h 'sician prescribes not the same
thing to a person in health, as he clbtli to one conflicting with adis-
temdper; nor the same thing in the beginning as he doth in the state
or eclination of the disease. The ph 'sician’s will and skill are the
same, but the capacity and necessity oil the patient for this or that
medicine, or method of roceeding, are not the same. Vifhen God
changed the ceremonial law, there was no change in the Divine will,
but an execution of his will; for when God commanded the observ-
ance of the law he intended not the perpletuity of it; nay, in the
prophets he declares the cessation of it; e decreed to command
it, but he decreed to command it only for such a time; so that the
abrogation of it was no less an execution of his decree, than the
establishment of it for a season was; the commanding of it was pur-
suant to his decree for the appointing of it, and the nulling of it
was pursuant to his decree of continuing it only for such a season;
so that in all this there was no change in the will of God. The
counsel of God stands sure; what changes soever there are in the
world, are not in God or his will, but in the events of things, and
the different relations of things to God: itis in the creature, not in the
Creator. The sun alway remains of the same hue, and is not discolorefl
in itself, because it shines green through a green glass, and blue
through a blue glass ; the different colors come from the glass, not
from the sun; the change is alway in the disposition of the crea-
ture, and not in the nature of God or his will.
V. Use 1. For information.
1. If God be unchangeable in his nature, and immutability be 8

