ON THE IMMUTABILITY or Gon. 347
`ro rty of God, then Christ hath a Divine nat1.u°e. This in the*
Pmliii is applied to Christ in the Hebrews (Heb. i. 11), where he
joins the citation out of this Psalm with that out of Ps. xlv. 6, 7,
“Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever; thou hast loved right-
00l1Sl1% and hated iniquity ; therefore God, even thy God, hath an-
ointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows; and thou,
Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth,” &c.
As the first must necessarily be meant of Christ the Mediator, and
therein he is distinguished from God, as one anointed by him ; so the
other must be meant of Christ, whereby he is made one with God
in regard of the creation anddissolution of the world, in regprd of
eternity and immutability. Both the testimonies are lin ed to-
gether by the coplulative and, “ and thou, Lord;” declaring thereby
that they are bot to be understood of the same person, the Son of
God. The design of the chapter is to prove Christ to be God; and
such things are spoken of hun as could not belong to any creature;
io, not to the most excellent of the angels. The same person that
is said to be anointed above his fellows, and is said to la the
foundation of the earth and heavens, is said to be the same; tgat is,
the same in himself; the prerogative of sameness belongs to that
person as well as creation of heaven and earth. The Socmians say
it is spoken of God, and that God shall destroy the heavens by
Christ; if so, Christ is not a mere creature, not created when he
was incarnate; for the same rson that shall change the world did
create the world; if God shalle change the world by him, God also
created the world by him; he was then before the world was; for
how could God create the world b one that was not; that was not
in bein till aiter the creation of the world? The heavens shall be
changed, but the person who is to change the heavens is said to be
the same, or unchangeable in the creation as well as the dissolution
of the world. This sameness refers to the whole sentence. The
Psalm wherein the text is, and whence this in the Hebrews is cited,
is properly meant of Christ, and redemption by him, and the com-
pleting of it at the last day, and not of the Ba ylonish captivity?
that captivity was not so deplorable as the state of the Psa mist de-
scribes; Daniel and his com anions flourished in that captivity; it
could not reasonably be saidp of them, that their days were consumed
like smoke, their hearts withered like grass; that they forgot to
“eat their bread” (ver. 3, 4). Besides, he complains of “ shortness
of life” (ver. 11); but none had any more reason to complain of
that in the time of the captivity, than before and after it, than at
any other time: their deliverance would contribute nothing to the
natural length of their lives. Besides, when Sion should be built,
the heathen should “fear the name of the Lord” (that is, worship
God), and “all the kings of the earth his glory" Sven 15). The
rearing the second tempe after the deliverance, di not proselyte
the nations; nor did t e kings of the earth worship the glory of
God; nor did God appear in such glory at the erecting the second tem-
ple. The second temple was less glorious than the first, for it wanted
lome of the ornaments which were the glory of the first; but it is
' Phweus de Deitate Christi.

