348 c11AnNocx ON rnn urrsrsurns.
said of this sfzpgte, thatyghen the Lord should ‘build up Sion, he should
“ a ear in ` lo ’ ver. 16 ; his ro r lor . and extraordin
glolfi) Now tha? Glfd who shail appegr iiiegl§ry,§.nd build up Sioniriys
the n of God, the Redeemer of the world; he builds up the church,
he causes the nations to fear the Lord, and the kings of the earth
his glory; he broke down the partition wall, and opened a door
for the entrance of the Gentiles; he struck the chains from otf the
prisoners, and loosed those that were appointed to death by the curse
of the law (ver. 20): and to this person is ascribed the creation of
the world; and he is pronounced to remain the same in the midst of
an iniinite number of changes in inferior things. And it is likely
the Psalmist considers not only the beginning of redemption, but the
completing of it at the second coming of Christ; for e complains
of t ose evils which shall be removed by his second coming, viz.,
the shortness of life, ersecutions and reproaches wherewith the
church is afflicted in £is world; and comforts not himself with
those attributes which are directly o posed to sin, as the mercy of
God, the covenant of God, but with tlilose that are opposed to mortal-
ity and calamities, as the unchangeableness and eternity of God; and
from thence infers a perpetual establishment of believers: “ The chil-
dren of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established
before thee" (ver. ZSZI: so that the Psalm itself seems to aim in the
whole discourse at G rist, and asserts his divinity, which the apostle,
as an interpreter, doth fully evidence; applying it to him, an man-
ifesting his deity by his immutability as well as eternity.” While
all' other things lose their forms, and pass through multitudes of
variations, he constantly remains the same, and shall be the same,
when all the empires of the world shall slide away, and a period
be put to the present motionsof the creation: and as there was no
change made in his being by the creation of things, so neither shall
there be b the ‘final alteration _of things; he shall see them finish,
as he saw tliem rise up into being, and be the same after their reign,
as he was before their original; he is the Hrst and the last (Rev. i. 17).
2. Here is ground and encouragement for worship. An atheist
will make another use of this; if God be immutab e, why should
We worship him, why should we ray to him? good will come if he
wills it; evil cannot be averted by all our supplications, if he hath
ordained it to fall upon us. But certainly since unchangeablenem is
knowing, and willing goodness is a perfection, an adoration and ad-
miration is due to God, upon the account of this excellence. If he
be God, he is to be reverenced, and the more highly neverenced, be-
cause lhe cannot but be God. Again, what com ort could it be tr
pray to a God, that like the chameleon changed colors every day
every moment? What encouragement could there be to lili. up our
eyes to one that were of one mind this day and of another mind to-
morrow? Who would put up a petition to an earthly prince that
were so mutable, as to grant a petition one day and deny it another,
and change his own act? But if a prince promise this or that thing
upon such or such a condition, and you know ins promise to be as
unchangeable as the laws of the Medes and Persians, would any man
5 Daille, Melang. des Sermons, Part Il. § l. p. 8-10, dm.

