ON THE IMHUTABILITY OF GOD. 349
reason thus? because it is unchangeable we will not seek to him, we
will not perform the condition, upon which the fruit of the procla-
mation is to be enjo ed. Who would not count such an inference
ridiculous? What lilessin hath not God promised upon the con~
lition of seeking him? %ere he of an unrighteous nat\u~e, or
lhangeable in his mind, this would be n. bar to our seeking him, and
frustrate our hopes; but since it is otherwise, is not this exccllcncy
of his nature the highest encouragement, to ask of him the blessings
he hath romised, and a beam from heaven to fire our zeal in asking?
If you dpesire things against his will, which he hath declared he will
not grant, prayer then would be an act of disobedience and injiuy
to him, as well as an act of folly in itself; his unchangeableuess then
might stifle such desires: but if we ask according to his will, and
according to our reasonable wants, what ground have we to make
such a ridiculous argument? He hath willed everything that may
be for our good, if we erform the condition he hath relchuired; and
hath put it upon record: that we may know it and reg ate our de-
sires and supplications according to it. If we will not seek him, his
immutability cannot be a. bar, but our own folly is the cause; and
by our neglect we despoil him of this perfection as to us, and either
imply that he is not sincere, and means not as he speaks; or that he
is as changeable as the wind, sometimes this thing, sometimes that,
and not at all to be confided in. If we ask according to his revealed
will, the unchangeableness of his nature will assure us of the grant,
and what a presum tion would it be in a creature dependent upon
his sovereign, to ask) that which he _knows he has dec ared his will
against; since there is no good we can want, but he hath romised
to give, upon our sincere and ardent desire for it? God qiath de-
creed to give this or that to man, but conditionally, and by the means
of inguirin after him, and asking for it: “ Ask, and you shall re~
eeive (Ezei. xxxvi. 37; Matt. vii. 7); as much as to say, You shall
not receive unless you ask. When the highest promises are made,
God expects they should be put in suit; our Saviour joins the
promise and the petition together; the promise to encourage the pe-
tition, and the petition to enjoy the promise : he doth not say perhaps
itshall be given, but it shall, that is, it certainly shall; your heav-
enly Father is unchangeably willing to give ylou those things. We
must depend upon his immutability for the t ing, and submit to his
wisdom for the time. Prayer is an acknowledgment of our de nd
ence upon God; which dependence could have no firm foundftion
without unchangeableness. Prayer doth not desire an chan e in
God, but is offered to God that he would confer those tliin wghich
he hath immutably willed to communicate; but he willed gem nox
without prayer as the means of bestowin them. The li ht of the
Hun is ordered for our comfort, for the fscovery of visil§e things.
forthe ripening the fruits of the earth; but withal it is required that
We use our faculty of seeing, that we employ our industry in sowing
and planting, au( expose our fruits to thc View of the sun, that they
may receive the influence of it. If a man shuts his e 'es, and com-
plains that the sun is changed into darkness, it would lie ridiculous'
the Sun is not changed, but we alter ourselves; nor is God changed

