350 cmnuocx ON THE Arrnisuras.
in not giving us the blessings he hath promised, because he hath
promised in the way of a due address to him, and openin our souls
to receive his influence, and to this, his immutability is tie greatest
encouragement;
3. This shows how contrary man is to God in regard of his incon-
stancy. Wllat an infinite distance is there between the immutable
God, and mutable man, and how should we bcwail this flittingness
in our naturel There is a mutability in us as creatures, and a crea-
ture cannot but be mutable by nature, otherwise it were not a creature
but God. The establishment of any creature is from grace and gift;
naturally we tend to nothing, as we come from nothing. This crea-
ture-mutability is not our sin, yet it should cause us to lie down
under a sense of our own nothingness, in the presence of the Creator.
The angels as creatures, though not corrupt, cover their faces before
him: and the arvuments God uses to humble Job, thoufvh a fallen
creature, are not from his corruption : for I do not remember that he
taxed him with that; but from the greatness of his majesty and ex-
celleney of his nature declared in his works (Job xxxviii.-xli.); and,
therefore, men that have no sense of God and humility before him,
forget that they are creatures as well as corrupt ones. How great is
the distance between God and us, in regard of our ineonstaney in
good, which is not natural to us by creation: for the mind and affec-
tions were regular, and by the great artiticer were pointed to God as
the object of knowledge and love. \Ve have t e same faculties
of understanding, will, and affection, as Adam had in innocence;
but not with the same light, the same bias, and the same ballast.
Man, by his fall, wounded his head and heart; the wound in his
head made him unstable in the truth, and that in his heart unsteadfast
in his aifections: he changed himself from the image of God to that
of the devil, from innocence to corruption, and from an ability to be
steadfhst to a perpetual inconstancv; “ his silver became drom, and
his wine was mixed with water" (Isa. i. 22). He changed,
(1.) To ineonstaney in truth, opposed to the imrnutability of knowl-
edge in God. How are our minds floating between ignorance and
knowledge! Truth in us is like those ephemera, creatures of a dav’s
continuance,-springs up in the morning, and expires at night.
How soon doth that tlv away from us which we have had, not only
some weak flashes of, but which we have learned and have had some
relish of l The devil stood not in the truth (John viii. 44), and
therefore manages his engines to make us as unstable as himself:
our minds reel, and corrupt reasonings overswav us; like sponges
we suck up water, and a light compression makes us spout it out
again. Truths are not eugraven upon our hearts, but writ as in dust,
dctaced by the next puff of wind, “carried about with every wind
of doctrine" (Eph. iv. 14); like a ship without a pilot and sails, at
the courtesy of the next storm, or like clouds that are tenants to the
wind and sun, moved by the wind and melted by the sun. The
Galatians were no sooner called into the grace of God, but they
were removed from it (Gal. i. 6); some have been reported to have
'menstruam fidem, kept an opinion for a month; and many are like
him that believed the soul’s immortality no longer than he had Plato’|

