.ON THE IHHUTABILITY OF GOD. 35]
book of that subject in his hand :'= one likens such to children ; they
play with truths as children do with babies, one while embrace them,
an a little after throw them into the dirt. How soon do we forget
what the truth is delivered to us, and what it re resented us to be
(James i. 23, 24). Is it not a thing to be bewailedj that man should
be such a weathercock, turned about with every breath of wind, and
shifting aspects as the wind shifts points?
(2i) 'Ineonstancy in will, and affections opposed to the immutabili-
ty o will in God. \Ve waver between God and Baal; and while
we are not only resolving, but upon motion a little way, look back
with a hankering after Sodom; sometimes lifted up with heavenly
intentions, and presently cast down with earthly cares, like a ship
that by an advancin wave seems to aspire to heaven, and the next
fall of the waves maies it sink down to the depths. We change
purposes oftener than fashions, and our resolutions are like letters in
water, whereof no mark remains; we will be as John to-day to love
Christ, and as Judas to-morrow to betray him, and, by an unworthy
levity, pass into the camp of the enemies of God; resolved to be as
holy as angels in the morning, when the evening beholds us as im-
pure as devils. How often _ o we hate what before we loved, and
shun what before we longed for! and our resolutions are like ves~
sels of crystal, which break at the first knock, are dashed in ieces
by the next temptation. Saul resolved not to persecute David) any
more, but you soon find him upon his old game. Pharaoh more than
once promised, and probably resolved, to let Israel go, but at the end
of the storm his purposes vanish (Exod. viii. 27, 32). 'When an
affliction pincheth men, they intend to change their course, and the
next news of ease changes their intentions; like a bow not fully
bent in their inclinations, they cannot reach the mark, but live many
years between resolutions of obedience and affections to rebellion
(Ps. lxxviii. 17): and what promises men make to God are often the
fruit of their passion, their fear, not of their will. The Israelites
were startled at the terrors wherewith the law was delivered, and
promised obedience (Exod. xx. 19), but a month after forgot them,
and make a golden calf, and in the sight of Sinai call for, and dance
before, their gods (Exod. xxxii.); never people more unconstant.
Peter, who vowed an allegiance to his Master, and a courage to stick
to him, foxswears him almost with the same breath. Those that cry
out with a zeal, “ The Lord he is God,” shortly after return to the
service of their idols (1 Kings xviii. 39). That which seems to be
our pleasure this day, is our vexation to-morrow; a fear of a judg-
ment puts us into a religious pang, and a love to our lusts rcduceth
IIS to a rebellious inclination; as soon as the danger is over, the saint
18 forgotten: salvation and damnation present themselves to us,
touch us, and engender some weak wishes, which are dissolved by
the next allurements of a carnal interest. No hold can be taken of
Our promises, no credit is to be given to our resolutions.
(3.) Ineonstancy in practice. How much beginning in the Spirit,
and ending in the flesh; one day in the sanctuary, another in the
Bews; clear in the morning as the sun, and clouded before noon;
‘ ' Sedgwick Chri|t`s Counsel, p. 230.

