352 CHARNOCK ON THE A'1'I‘R.IBUTES.,_
in heaven by an excellency of gifts, in hell by a course of profane-
ness; like a flower, which some mention, that changes its color
three times a day, one (part white, then purple, then yellowl The
spirit lusts against the esh, and the flesh quickly triumphs over the
spirit. In a good man how often is there a spiritual lethargy;
t ough he doth not openly defame God, yet he doth not always
glorify him ; he doth not forsake the truth, but he doth not always
make the attainment of it, and settlement in it his business. This
levity discovers itself in religious duty, “when I would do good,
evil is present with me” (Rom. vii. 21). Never more present, than
when we have a mind to do good, and never more present than when
we have a mind to do the best and greatest good. How hard is it
to make our thoughts and affections keep their standl place them
upon agood object, and they will be frisking from it, as a bird from
one bough, one fruit, to another: we vary postures according to the
various objects we meet with. The co1u‘se of the world is a very
airy thing, suited to the uncertain notions of that “prince of the
ppwer of the air,” which Works in it (Eph. ii. 2). This ought to be
walled by us. Though we may stand fast in the truth, though we
may spin our resolutions into a firm web, though the spirit may
triumph over the flesh in our practice, yet we ought to bewail it,
because inconstancy is our nature, and what flxedness We' have in
good is from grace. What we find practised by most men is natural
to all ;‘1 “ as face answers to face in a glass, so doth heart to heart”
(Prov. xxvii. 19); a face in the glass is not more like a natural face,
whose image it is, than one man s heart is natural] like another.
lst. It is natural to those out of the church. lgizbuchadnezzar is
S0 affected with Daniel’s prophetic spirit, that he would have none
accounted the true God, but the “ God of Daniel” (Dan. ii. 47). How
soon doth this notion slip from him, and an image must be set up for
all to worship, upon pain of a most cruel, (painful death! Daniels
God is quite forgotten. The miraculous elivcrance of the three
children, t?'r not worshi pin his image, makes him settle a decree
to secure the honor of god gem the reproach of his subjects (Dan.
iii. 29), yet, a little while a.fter, you have him strutting in his palace,
as if there were no God but hirnselfl
2d. It is natural to those in the Church. The Israelites were the
only church God had in the world, and a notable example of incon-
stancy. After the miracles of Egypt, they murmured against- God,
when they saw Pharaoh marching with an army at their heels. They
desired food, and soon nauseated the rnanna they were before fond
of. When they came into Canaan, they sometimes worshi ped God,
and sometimes idols, not only the ido s of one nation, lint of all
their neighbors. In which regard God calls this, his heritage; “a
speckled bird” (Jer. xii. 9) ; a peacock, saith Hierom, inconstant,
made up of varieties of idolatrrim colors and ceremonies. This
levity o spirit is the root of all mischief; it scatters our thoughts
in tlzc service of God; it is thc cans of all rcvolts and apwstnsics
from him; it makes us unfit to receive the communications of God.
whatsoever we hear is like words writ in sand, ruffled out by the
4 Lawrence, of Fmiblx. p. 262.

