orvrn IMIIUTABILITY or con. 353
next gale; whatsoeveris ut into us is like precious liquor in a.
palsy hand, soon spilt: it breeds distrust of God when we have an
uncertain judgment of him, we are not like to confide in him; an
uncertain judgment will be followed with a distrustful heart. In
ine, where it is prevalent, it is a certain sign of lmgodliness. To be
driven with the wind like chaff and to be ungodly, is all one in the
judgment of the Holy Ghost (Ps. i. 4); the ungodly are “like the
chaff which the wind drives away,” which. signifies not their de-
struction, but their di osition, for their destruction is inferred from
it (ver. 5), “therefore ge ungodly shall not stand in judgment.” How
contrary is this to the unchangeable God, who is alway the same,
and would have us the same, in our religious promises and resolu-
tions for good I
4. If God be immutable, it is sad news to those that are resolved
in wickedness, or careless of returning to that duty he requires.
Sinners must not expect that God will alter his will, make a breach
upon his nature, and violate his own word to   their lusts. No,
it is not reasonable God should dishonor himsel to secure them,
and cease to be God, that they may continue to be wicked, by chang-
ing his own nature, that they may be unchan ed in their vanity.
God is the same; goodness is as amiable in liis sight, and sin as
abominable in his eyes now, as it was at the beginning of the world.
Being the same God, he is the same enemy to the wicked as the
same friend to the righteous. He is thesame in knowledge, and
cannot forget sinfu1_acts. He is the same in will, and cannot a
prove of unrighteous practices. Goodness cannot but be alway tliii
object of his love, and wickedness cannot but be alway the object of
his hatred: and as his aversion to sin is alway the same, so as he
hath been in his 'udgments upon sinners, the same he will be still;
for the same perfiection of immutability belongs to his justice for the
punishment of sin, as to his holiness for his disaifection to sin. Though
the covenant of works was changeable b the crime of man violat-
ing it, yet it was unchangeable in regardy of God’s `ustice vindicat-
ing it, which is inflexible in the punishment of the Jbreaches of his
law. The law had a preceptive part, and a minatory part: when
man changed the observation of the precept, the righteous nature
of God could not null the execution of the threatening; he could
not, upon the account of this perfection, neglect his just word, and
countenance the unrighteous transgression. Though there were no
more rational creatures in beinrf but Adam and Eve, yet God sub-
jected them to that death he had assured them of : and from this
iinmutability of his will, ariseth the necessity of the suffering of the
Son of God for the relief of the a ostate creature. His will in the
second covenant is as unchangeable as that in the first, only repent-
ance is settled as the condition of the second, which was not in-
dulged in the first; and without repentance, the sinner must irrev-
ocably perish, or God must change his nature: there must be a
change in man; there can be none in God; his bow is b.~nt, his
arrows are ready, if the wicked do not turn (Ps. vii. 11). There is
not an atheist, an hypocrite, a profane person, that ever was upon
the earth, but God’s soul abhorred him as such, and the like he will
vol. 1.-23 -

