1
354 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
abhor forever; while any therefore continue so, they may sooner
expect the heavens should roll as they please, the sun stan still at
their order, the stars change their course at their beck, than that God
should changle his nature. which is opposite to profaneness and
vanitiy?,,   o hit? hardened himself against him, and hath pros-
re o ix. _
Pe I/Tse 2. Of comfort. The immutability of a good God is a strong
ound of consolation. Subjects wish a good prince to live forever, as
E-feing loth to change him, but care not how soon they are rid of an op-
pressor. This unchangeableness of God’s will shows him as ready to
accept any that come to him as ever he was; so that we may with confi-
dence make our address to him, since he cannot change his affections
to goodness. The fear of chanlge in a friend hinders a full reliance
trippn him; an assurance of stab ity encourages hope and confidence.
is attribute is the strongest prop for faith in all our addresses; it
is not a single perfection, but the glor of all those that belongto
his nature; for he is unchangeable in his love (Jer. xxxi. 3), in his
truth (Ps. cxvii. 2). The more solemn revelation of himself in this
name, Jehovah, which signifies chiefly his eternity and immutability,
was to support the Israelites’ iaith in expectation of a deliverance
from Egy t, that he had not retracted his purpose, and his promise
made to igbraham for giving Canaan to his osterity (Exod. iii. 14-
17). Herein is the basis and strength of all his promises; therefore,
saith the Psalmist, “Those that know thy name, will- put their trust
in thee” (Ps. ix. 10): those that are spiritually acquainted with thv
name, Jehovah, and have a true sense of it upoii their hearts, will
put their trust in thee. His goodness could not be distrusted, if his
unchangeableness were well ap rehended and considered. All dis-
trust would fly before it, as darkness before the sun; it only gets
advantage of us when We are not well grounded in his name; and
if ever we trusted God, we have the same reason to trust him forever:
(Isa. xxvi. 4) “Trust in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah
is everlasting strength ;” or, as it is in the Hebrew, “ a Rock of Ages,"
that is, perpetually unchangeable. We ind the traces of God’s im-
mutability in the creatures. He has, by his peremptory decree, set
bounds to the sea: “ Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further, and
here shall thy proud waves be stayed” (Job xxxviii. 11). Do we fear
the sea overflowing us in this island? No, because of his fixed de-
cree. And is not his promise in his Word as unchangeable as his
word concerning inanimate things, as good a ground to rest iapon?
' 1. The covenant stands unchangeable. Mutable creatures reak
their leagues and covenants, and snap them asunder like Saiusonls
cords, when they are not accommodated to their interests. But an
unchangeable God keeps his: “The mountains shall depart, and the
hills be removed, but my kindness shall not de art from thee, nor
shall the covenant of my peace be removed (lea. liv. 10). The
heaven and earth shall sooner fall asunder, and the strongest and
Iirinest parts of the creation crumble to dust, sooner than one iota of
my covenant shall fail. It depends upon the unchangeablcness of
his will and the unchangeablcness of his word, and, therefore, is
called “the immutability of his counsel” (Heb. vi. 17). It is the

