ON 'rmt nmwranxnrrv or con. 355
fruit of the everlasting pu se of God; whence the apostle links
purpose and grace togetherr()2) Tim. i. 9). .A covenant with a nation
may be changeable, because it may not be built upon the eternal
purpose of God, “ to put his fear in the heart ;” but with respect to
the creature’s obedience. Thus God chose Jerusalem as the place
wherein he would “ dwell forever" (Ps. cxxxii. 14), yet he threatens
to depart from them when they had broken covenant with him;
“and the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city to
the mountain on the east side" (Ezek. xi. 33). The covenant of grace
doth not run, “I will be your_ God if you will be m people ;’ but
“I will be their God, and they shall be my peo le” (Hes. ii. 19, &,c.)
“I will betroth thee to me forever; I will say, lllhou art my people,
and they shall say, Thou art my God.” His everlasting purpose is,
to write his laws in the hearts of the elect. He puts a condition to
his covenant of grace, the condition of faith, and he resolves to
work that condition in the heartsof the elect; and, therefore, be-
lievers have two immutable pillars for their support, stronger than
those erected by Solomon at the porch of the temple (1 Kings  
21), called Jakin and Boaz, to note the firmness of that building
dedicated to God; these are election, or the standing counsel of God
and the covenant of grace. He will not revoke the covenant, and
blot the names of ,his elect out of the book of life.
2. Perseverance is ascertained. It consists not with the majesty
of God to call a person effectually to himself to-day, to make him
tit for his eternal love, to give him faith, and take away that faith
to-morrow. His effectual call is the fruit of his eternal election, and
that counsel hath no other foundation but his constant and unchange-
able will; a foundation that stands sure,,and, therefore, called the
foundation of God, and not of the creature; “ the foundation of God
stands sure, the Lord knows who are his" (2 Tim. ii. 19). It is not
founded upon our own natural strength ; it may be then subject to
change, as all the products of nature are. The fallen angels had
created grace in their innocency, but lost it by their fall. Were
this the foundation of the creature, it might soon be shaken; since
man, after his revolt, can ascribe nothing constant to himself but his
own inconstancy. But the foundation is not in the infirmity of na-
ture, but the strength of grace, and of the grace of God, who is im-
mutable, who wants not virtue to be able, nor kindness to be willing,
to preserve his own foundation! To what purpose doth our Saviour
tel his disciples their names “ were written in eaven” (Luke X. 20),
but to mark the infallible certainty of their salvation by an opposition
to those things which perish, and have their “ names written in the
earth" (f er. xvii. 23) ; or u(pon the sand, where they may be defaced ?
And w y should Christ or er his disciples to rejoice that their names
were written in heaven, if God were changeable to blot them out
again? or why should the a stle assure us, that though God had
rejected the greatest part of th; Jews, he had not, therefore, rejected
his people elected according to his purpose and immutable counsel ,
because there are none of the elect of God but will come to salvation?
For, saith he, the “election hath obtained it” (Rem. xi. 7); that is,
° Turretin. Ser. p. 322.

