356 cnsmrocx ON 'rim A'r'rnmU'rEs.
all those that are of the election have obtained it, and the others are
hardened. Where the seal of sanctification is stamped, it is a testi-
mony of God’selection, and that foundation shall stand sure: “ The
foundation of the Lord stands su.re, having this seal, the Lord knows
who are his;” that is the foimdation, the “ naming the name of Christ,”
or believing in Christ, and “departing from iniquity,” is the sealf
As it is impossible when God calls t ose things that are not, but
that they should s ring up into being and appear before him; so it
is impossible but that the seed of Go , by his eternal purpose, should
be brought to a spiritual life, and that calling cannot be retracted;
for that “ gift and calling is without re entance” (Rom. xi. 29). And
when repentance is removed from God) in re ard of some works, the
immutability of those works is declared; and the reason of that im-
mutabilit f is their ure dependence on the eternal favor and un-
changeable grace of) God “ urposed in himself” (E h. i. 9, 11), and
not upon the mutability ot? the creature. Hence their happiness is
not as patents among men, quam diu bene se gesserint, so long as they
behave themselves well; but the have a. promise that t -ey shall
behave themselves so as never wholly to depart from God (J er. xxxii.
40): “ I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not
turn away from them to do them good, but I will put my fear in
their hearts, that they shall not depart from me.” God will not tLu'n
from them, to do them good, and promiseth that they shall not turn
from him forever, or forsake him. And the bottom of it is the ever
lasting covenant, and therefore, believing and sealing for security
are linked together zEph. i. 13). And when God oth inwardly
teach us his law, he puts in a will not to depart from it: (Ps. cxix.
102) “I have not departed from thy judgmentsf’ what is the reason T
“For thou hast taug t me.”
3. B this eternal happiness is in ured. This is the inference
made fiom the eternity and unehangeableness of God in the verse
following the text (ver. 28): “The children of thy servants shall
continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.” This is
the sole conclusion drawn from those perfections of God solemnly
asserted before. The children which the pro hets and a ostles have
begotten to thee, shall be totall delivered fiiom the relics of their
apostasy, and the punishment dhe to them, and rendered partakers
o immortality with thee, as sons to dwell in their Father’s house
forever. The Spirit begins a spiritual life here, to fit for an immu-
table life in glory hereafter, Where believers shall be placed upon a
throne that cannot be shaken, and possess a crown that shall not be
taken off their heads forever.
Use 3. Of exhortation. 1. Let a sense of the changeableness and
uncertainty of all other things beside God, be upon us. There
are as many change  as there are figures in the world. The whole
fashion of t e world is a transient thing; every man may say as J ob,
“Changes and war are against me” (Job X. 113). Lot chose the plain
of Sodom, because it was the richer soil. e was but a little time
there before he was taken prisoner, and his substance made the spoil
of his enemies. That is again restored; but a while after, tire from
' I Cooceiul.

