ON 'rms mnuunmrrr or oon. 857
heaven devoius his wealth, though his erson was secured from the
judgment by a special Providence. Vge burn with a desire to set-
tle ourselves, but mistake the way, and build castles in the air, which
vanish like bubbles of soap in water. And, therefore,
(L) Let not our thoughts dwell much upon them. Do but con-
sider those souls that are in the possession of an unchangeable God,
that behold his never-fading glory! Would it not be a kind of hell
to them to have their thoughts starting out to these things, or find
any desire in themselves to the changeable trifles of the earth? Nay,
have we not reason to think that they cover their faces with shame,
that ever they should have such a weakness of spirit when they
were here below, as to spend more thoughts upon them than were
necesary for this present life; much more that they should at any
time value and court them above an unchangeable good? Do they
not disdain themselves that they should ever debase the immuta-
ble perfections of God, as to have neglecting thoughts of him at
anyltime, for the entertainment of such a mean 'and inconstant
nva _
(2.) Much less should we trust in them, or rejoice in them. The
best things are mutable, and things of such a nature are notifit ob-
jects of confidence. Trust not in riches, they have their wanes as
well as increases; they rise sometimes like a torrent, and flow in
upon men, but resemble also a torrent in as sudden afall and depart-
ure, aud leave nothing but slime behind them. Trust not in honor;
all the honor and ap lause in the world is no better than an inheri-
tance of wind, which the pilot is not sure oi, but shifts from one
corner to another, and stands not per tually in the same point of
the heavens. How, in a few ages di<i)€the house of David, a great
monarch, and a man after God’s own heart, descend to a mean con-
dition, and all the glory of that house shut up in the stock of a car-
penter? David‘s sheep-hook was turned into a sceptre, and the
sceptre by the same hand of Providence turned into a hatchet in
Joseph his descendant. Rejoice not immoderately in wisdom; that,
and earning languish with age. A wound in the head may im air
that which is the glory of man. If an organ be out of frame, fglly
mav succeed, and all a mau’s prudence be wound up in an irrecov-
arable dong; Nebuchadnezzar was no fool, yet, by a sudden hand
of God, he ame not only a fool or a madman, but a kind of brute.
Rejoice not in stren vth; that decays, and a mighty man may live to see
his strong arm withered, and a grasshopper to become a burthen
(Eccles. xii 5): “The strong men shall bow themselves, and the
grindeis shall cease because they are few” (ver. 3): nor rejoice in
children; they are like birdsu on a tree, that make a little chirping
music, and presently fall into the fowler’s net. Little did Job expect
such sad news as the loss of all his rogeny at a blow, when the
messen er knocked at his gate; and) such changes happen often-
times when our expectations of comfort, and a contentment in them,
are at the highest. How often doth a string crack when the musi-
:ian hath wound it up to a just height for a tune, and all his pains
and delight marred in a moment! Nay, all these things change
while we are using them, like ice that melts between our fingers,

