'858 onnmvoox ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
and flowers that wither while we are smelling to them. The apostle
gave them a good title when he called them “uncertain riches, ' and
thought it a strong argument to dissuade them from trusting in them
(1 Tim. vi. 17). The wealth of the' merchant depends upon the
winds and waves, and the revenue of the husbandman upon the
clouds; and since they depend upon those things which are used to
express the most changeableness, they can be no fit object for trust.
Besides, God sometimes kindles a fire under all a man’s glory, which
doth insensibly consume it (Isa. x. 16); and while we have them,
the fear of losing them renders us not very happy in the fruition of
them ; we can scarce tell whether they are contcntments or no, be
cause sorrow follows them so close at the heels. It is not an unne
cessary exhortation for good men; the best men have been apt to
place too much trust in them. David thought himself immutable
in his prosperity, and such thoughts could not be without seine im-
moderate outlets of the heart to them, and confidences in them; and
Job promised himself to die in his nest, and “multiply his days as
the sand,” without any interruption (Job xxix. 18, 19,   but he
was mistaken and disappointed. Let me add this: trust not in men,
who are as inconstant as anything else, and often change their most
ardent affections into implaeable hatred; and though their affections
may not be changed, the power to help you may. Haman's friends,
that depended on him one day, were crest-fallen the next, when
their patron was to exchange his chariot of state for an ignoxnin-
ious gallows.
(3.) Prefer an immutable God before mutable creatures. Is it not
a horrible thing to see what we are, and what we oxsess, daily
crumbling to dust, and in a continual flux from us, and) not seek out
something that is permanent, and always abide the same, for our por-
tion? In God, or \fVisdom, which is C rist, there is substance (Prev.
viii. 21), in which respect he is opposed to all the things in the
world, that are but shadows, that are shorter or longer, according
to the motion of the sun; mutable also, by every little body that in-
tervenes. God is subject to no decay within, to no force without;
nothing in his own nature can change him from what he is, and there
is no power above can hinder him from being what he will to the
soul. He is an ocean of all perfection: he wants nothing without
himself to render him blessed, which may allure him to a change.
His creatures can want nothing out of him to make them ha ipy,
whereby they may be enticed to prefer anything before him. Ilfwe
enjoy other things, it is by God’s donation, who can as wellwith-
draw them as bestow them; and it is but a reasonable, as well as a
necessary thing, toendeavor the enjoyment of the immutable Bene~
factor, rather than his revocable gifts. If the creatures had a sufli'
cient virtue in themselves to ravish our thoughts and engross ou:
souis; yet when we take a pros ect of a fixed and unchangcable
Being, what beauty, what strength have any of those things to vie
with him ? How can they bear u and maintain their interest against
a lively thought and sense of God? All the glory of them would
ily before him like that of the stars before the sun. They were once
nothing, they may be nothing again; as their own nature brought

