on run nnmrnnrnrrr or son. 859
them not out of nothing, so their nature secures them not from
being reduced to nothing. What an unhappiness is it to have our
sfections set upgn that which retains something of its mm ease with
its exe, its not ing with its being; that lives indeed, but in a con~
tinual flux, and may lose that pleasurableness to-morrow which
charms us to-day?
2. This doctrine will teach us patience under such providences
as declare his unchangeable will. The rectitude of our wills con-
sists in conformity to the Divine, as discovered in his Words, and
manifested in his providence, which are the eiiluxes of his immutaf
ble will. The time of trial is appointed by his immutable will
(Dan. xi. 3-5); it is not in the power of the suHlerer’s will to shorten it,
nor in the wer of the enemies’ will to lengthen it. Whatsoever doth
happen hag) been decreed by God (Eccles. vi. 10), “ That which hath
been is named already ;” therefore to murmur or be discontented is
tocontend with God, who is mightier than we, to maintain his own
purposes. God doth act all things conveniently for that immutable
end intended by himself, and according to the reason of his own
fill, in the true point of time most proper for it and for us, not too
soon or too slow, because he is unchangeable in knowledge and vrisf
dom. God doth not act anything barely by an immutab e will, but
by an immutable wisdom, and an unchangeable rule of goodness;
and., therefore, we should not onl acquiesce in what he works, but
have a. complacency in it; and   having our wills thus knitting
themselves with the immutable wi l of God, we attain some degree
of likeness to him in his own unchangeableness. When, therefore,
God hath manifested his will in opening his decree to the world b
his work of providence, we must cease all disputes against it, ami
with Aaron hold our peace, though the atlliction be very smart
(Rev. x. 3). “All flesh must be silent before God” (Zech. ii. 13);
for whatsoever is his counsel shall stand, and cannot be recalled.
All struggling against it is like a brittle glass contending with a
mek; for “if he cut otf and shut up, or gather together, then who
can hinder him ?” (J ob xi. 10.) Nothing can help us, if he hath de-
termined to aiilict us, as nothing can hurt us, if he hath determined
to secure us. The more clearly God hath evidenced this or that to
he his will, the more sinful is our struggling against it. Pharaoh’s
sin was the greater in keeping Israel, by how much the more God’s
miracles had been demonstrations of his settled will to deliver them.
let nothing snatch our hearts to a contradiction to him, but let us
fear and give (glory to him, when the hour of judgment which he
hath ap inte is come (Rev. xiv. 7); that is, comply with the un-
changeagle will of his precept, the more he declares the immutable
will of his providence. We must not think God must disgrace his
nature and chan e his proceedings for us; better the creature should
sutfer, than Got? be impaired in any of his perfections. If God
changedphis purpose he would change his nature. Patience is the
way to perform the immutable will of God, and a means to attain a
gracious immutability for ourselves by receiving the promise (Heb.
1 36), “Ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the
will of God, ye might receive the promise.”

