860 cnsnsocx ON 'rim A'1'rR1BU'rrs.
3. This doctrine will teach us to imitate God in this perfection, oy
striving to be immovable in goodness. God never gces back from
himself; he Hnds nothing better than himself for which he should
change; and can we ind anything better than God, to allure our
hearts to a change from him? The sun never declines from the
ecliptic line, nor should we from the paths of holiness. A steadfast
obedience is encouraged by an unchangeable God to reward it (1 Cor
xv. 58): “Be steadfast and immovable, always abounding in the
work of the Lord, knowing that your labor shall not be in vain in
the Lord.” Unsteadfastness is the note of a hypocrite (Ps.  
37): steadfastness in that which is good is the mark of a saint; it is
the character of a righteous person to “keep the truth” (Isa. xxvi. 2).
And it is as positive] said that “he that abides not in the doctrine
of Christ hath not god” (2 John, 9); but he that doth, “hath both
the .Father and the Son.” So much of uncertainty, so much of
nature, so much of ‘firmness in duty, so much of grace. We can
never honor God unless we finish his work; as Christ did not glorify
God but in finishing the work God gave him to do (John xvii. 4).
The nearer the world comes to an end, the more is God’s immuta-
bility seen in his romises and predictions, and the more must our
unchangeableness be seen in our obedience (Heb. x. 23, 25): “Let
11S hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, and so
much the more as you see the day approaching.” The christian
Jews were to be the more tenacious of their faith, the nearer they
saw the day approaching, the day of J erusalem's destruction progre-
sied of by Daniel (Dan. ix. 26), which accomplishment must a
great argument to establish the christian Jews in the profession of
Christ to be the Messiah, because the destruction of the city was nd
to be before the cutting off the Messiah. Let us be, therefore, con-
stant in our profession and service of God, and not suffer ourselves
to be driven from him by the ill usage, or flattered from him by the
caresses of the world.
(1.) It is reasonable. If God be unchangeable in doing us ood,
it is reason we should be unchangeable in doing him service. Tf he
assure us that he is oiu' God, our “I Am,” he would also that we
should be his people; his we are. If he declare himself constant in
his promises, he expects we should be so in our obedience. As a
spouse, we should be unchangeably faithful to him as a Husband;
as subjects, have an unchangeable allegiance to him as our Prince.
He would not have us faithful to him for an hour or a day, but “to
the death” (Rev. ii. 10); and it is reason we should be his, and
if we be his children, imitate him in his constancy of his holy
u oses.
P gi) It is our glory and interest. To be a reed shaken with every
wind is no commendation among men, and it is less a ground of
raise with God. It was J ob’s glory that he held fast his integrity
FJob i. 22): “ In all this Job sinned not;” in all this,-which whole
cities and kingdoms would have thought ground enough of high
exclamations against God, and also against the temptation of his
wife,-he retained his integrity (Job ii. 9): “Dom thou still retain
thy integrity ?” The devil, who by God’s permission stripped him

