ON 'rss nnrU'r.iB1Lrr¥ or son. 861
of his goods and health, yet could not strip him of his grace. As a
traveller; when the wind and snow beats in his face, wraps his cloak
more closely about him to preserve that and himself Better we had
never made profession, than afterwards to abandon it; such a wither-
ing profession serves for no other use than to aggravate the crime, if
angeof us fly like a coward., or revolt like a traitor; what rofit will
it to a soldier, if he hath withstood ,many assaults, andpturn his
biick at last? If we would have God crown us with an immutable
o , we must crown our be ' in with a ha rseverance
  ii. 10): “Be faithful to thiudneatgf and I will   tlheee a crown
of life ;” not asthough this were the cause to merit it, but 'a necessary
condition to possess it: constancy in good is accompanied with an
immutability orf glory.
(3.) By an unchangeable dispiosition to good, we should be 'n the
happiness of heaven upon'eart . This is the perfection of blessed
spirits, those that are nearest to God as angels and glorified souls,
ey are immutable; not, indeed, by nature, but by grace; yet not
only by a necessity of grace, but a. liberty of will: grace will not let
them change; and that grace doth animate their wills that they
would not change; an immutable God Hlls their understandings and
affections, and gives satisfaction to their desires. The saints when
they were below, tried other things, and found them deficient; but
now they are so fully satisfied with the beatilic vision, that if Satan
should have an entrance among the angels and sons of God, it is not
likely he should have any influence upon them; he could not re-
sent to their understandings anything that could either at the Idrst
glance, or upon a deliberate view, be preferable to what they enjoy
and are fixed in. Well, then, let us be immovable in the knowledge
and love of God. It is the delight of God to see his creatures resem-
ble him in what they are able. Let not our affections to him be
as Jonah’s gourd, growing up in one night and withering the next.
let us not only fight a good fight, but do so till we have finished
our course, and imitate Go in an unchangeableness of holy purposes;
and to that purpose, examine ourselves daily what fixedness we have
arrived unto; and to revent any temptation to a revolt, let us often
possess our minds with thou hts of the immutability of God’s nature
and will, which, like fire under water, will keep a good matter boil-
ing up in us, and make it both retain and increase its heat.
(4.) Let this doctrine teach us to have recourse to God, and aim
at a near conjunction with him. When our spirits begin to 11%, and
a cold aguish temper is drawing upon us, let us go to him w 0 can
only fix our hearts, and furnish us with a ballast to render them
steadfast. As he is only immutable in his nature, so he is the only
pgnciple of immutability, as well as being in the creature. Without
` grace, we shall be as changeable in our pppearances as the
chameleon, and in our turnings as the wind. en Peter trusted
in himself, he changed to the worse; it was his Master’s recourse to
God for him that reserved in him a reducing principle, which
changed him again fgr the better, and fixed him in it (Luke xxii. 32).
It will be our interest to be in conjunction with him, that moves not
about with the heavens, nor is turned by the force of nature, nor
1

