DISCOURSE V_II.
ON GOD’S OMNIPRESENCE.
Janus uiii. 24.-Can any hide himself in secret phices, that I shall not seo himl
saith the Lord. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the Lord.
TH!-1 occasion of this discourse begins ver. 16, where God admon-
isheth the people, not to hearken to the words of the false prophets
which s ake a vision of their own heart, and not out of the _mouth
of the Eord. They made the people vain by their insinuations of
please, when God had proclaimed war and calamity; and uttered the
cams of their fancies, and not the visions of the Lord; _and so
turned the people from the expectation of the evil day which God
had threatened (ver. 17): “They say still unto them that despise me,
The Lord hath said, Ye shall have peace: and they say unto_ every
one that walks after the imagination of his own heart, No evil sha
come upon you.” And thp7y invalidate the prophecies of those whom
God had sent, ver. 18: “N ho hath stood in the counsel of the Lord,
and hath erceived and heard his word? who hath marked his word,
and heardp it “I” Who hath stood in the counsel of the Lord? Are
they ac uainted with the secrets of God more than we? Vi/'ho have
the woifd of the Lord, if we have not? Or, it may be a continuation
of God’s admonition: believe not those pro hets; for who of them
have been acquainted with the secrets of Gibd? or by what means
should the learn his counsel? No; assure yourselves “a Whirlwind
of the Lord is gone forth in fury, even a grievous whirlwind; it shall
fall grievously upon the head of the Wicked" gver. 19). A whirlwind
shall come from Babylon; it is just at the oor, and shall not be
blown over; it shall fall with a witness upon the wicked people and
the deceiving prophets, and sweep them together into capltivity. For
(ver. 20), “The anffer ofthe Lord shall not return, until e have exe-
cuted, and till helliave erformed the thoughts of his heart.” Lg?
fury shall not be a childpish fury, that quickly languisheth, but sh l
accomplish whatsoever I threaten; and burn so hot, as not to be
cool, till I have satisfied my vengeance; “in the latter days ye shall
consider it rfectly” Yer. 20), when the storm shall beat upon you,
vou shall tlilin know t at the calamities shall answer the words you
have heard. When the conqueror shall waste your groimds, demolish
your houses, and manacle your hands, then shall you consider it, and
lave the wishes of fools, that you had had your eyes in your heads
before; you shall then know the ,falseness of your guides, and the

