364 cmanocx on THE Arrnmurns. _
truth of my rophets, and discern who stood in the counsel of the
Lord, and sulascribe to the messages I have sent you.
Some understand this not only of the Bah lonish ca tivity, but
refer it to the time of Christ, and the false (lbctrine ofp mens own
righteousness in opposition to the righteousness of God; under-
standing this verse to be partly a ,threatening of wrath, which shall
end in an advantage to the Jews, who shall in the latter time con-
sider the falsencss of their notions about a legal righteousness, and
so make it a promise; they shall then know t e intent of the Scrip-
ture, and in the latter days, the latter end of the world, when time
shall be near the rollin§ up, they shall reflect upon themselves;
they shall “look upon im' whom they have pierced ;" and till
these latter days, they shall be hardened, and believe nothing of
evangelical truths. Now God denieth that he sent those prophets
(ver. 21): “I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran; I have
not spoken to them, yet they prophesied.” They have intruded
themselves without a commission from me, whatsoever their brags
are. The reason to rove it is (ver. 22), “ If they had stood in my
counsel,” if they has been instructed, and inspired by me, “they
would have caused my peo le to hear my words ;” they would have
regulated themselves according to my word, “and have turned them
from their evil way ;” i. e. endeavored to shake down their false con~
fidences of peace, and make them sensible of their false notions of
me, and my waysl Now because those false prophets could not be
so impudent as to boast that they prophesied in the name of God,
when they had not commission from im, unless they had some se-
cret sentiment, that they and their intentions were hid from the
knowled e and e e of God; he adds (ver. 33), “ Am I a God at
hand, and not a god afar off? Can any hide himself in secret places,
that I shall not see him ?” Have I not the power of seeing and
knowing what they do, 'what they design, what they think? Why
should I not have such a power, since fill heaven and earth by my
essence? “Am I a God at hand, and not a God afar off? He ex-
cludes here the doctrine of those that excluded the providence of
God from extending itself to the inferior things of the earth; which
error was ancient, as ancient as the time of Job, as ap ears by their
opinion, that God’s eyes were hood-winked and muiiled)by the thick-
ness of the clouds, and could not pierce through their dark and dense
bod (Job   14): “Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he
seeth not.” ”
Some refer it to time! Do you imagine me a God new framed
like our idols, beginning a little time ago, and not existing before
the fiiundation of the world; ea, from eternity? a God afar oil;
further than your aeutest understandings can reach? I am of a
longer standing, and you ought to know my majesty. But it rather
refers to place than time. Do you think I o not behold everything
in the earth, as well as in heaven? Am I locked u within the walls
of m palace, and cannot ee out to behold the things done in the
world? or that am I so linlied) to pleasure in the place of my glory,
as earthly kings are in their courts, that I have no mind or leisure
I’ Munster, Vatablus, Castalio Oeoolamp.

