ON cons oMNn>nnsnNcs. 365
to take notice of the carriages of men upon earth? God doth not
say, He was afar oii, but only gives an account of the inward
thoughts of their minds, or at least of the language expressed by
their actions. The interrogation carries in it a strong aihrmation, and
esures us more of God’s care, and the folly of men in not consider-
ing it. “ Am I a God at hand, and not a God afar oif? Can any
hide himself in secret places P” (Heb.) In hiddenesses, in the deepest
cells. What! are you besotted b your base lusts, that you think
me a Gad careless, ignorant, blind? that I can see nothing, but as a
purblin man, what is very near my eye? Are you so out of your
wits, that ou imagine you can deceive me? Do not all tiour beha-
viors   such a sentiment to lie secret in your heart, 0`li§`l1 not
formed into a full conception, yet testified by your actions? 0, you
are much mistaken ' it IS impossible but that I should see and know
all things, since I am present with all things, and am not at a greater
distance from the things on earth than from the things in heaven;
it; I till all that vast fabric which is divided into those two parts of
ven and earth ~ and 'he that hath such an innnite essence cannot
he distant, cannot be ignorant; nothing can be far from   eyes,
since everything is so near to his essence. So that it is an elegant
expremion of the omniscience of God, and a strong arilment for it.
He asserts, irst, the universality of his knowledge; ut-lest they
§Ihh<;1ld mistake, and confine his presence only to heaven, he addsf
the “fills heaven and earth.” I do not see things so as if
spite in one place, and the things seen in another, as it is with man;
whatsoever I see I see not without myself because every corner
of heaven and earth ,is filled b me. He that 'fills all, must needs
see and know all. And indeecz men that question the knowledge
of God, would be more convinced by the doctrine of his ianrnediate
presence with them. And thisseems to be the design an manner
gf” arguing in this place. Nothing is remote from my knowledge,
use nothing is distant from m presence.
I _/ill heaven and earth : he dog; not say, “I am in heaven and
earth," but I _/ill heaven and earth ;” fi. e. say some, with my knowl-
e<ige,'1cghex's, rgith rny authotrity or lpytpowgpf' g3t1;t,th an f
. e wo mg canno proper y e r erre e o un-
derstanding ancfvliiill. A fpresence by knowledge is to be granted,
hestgeto say such a presence lls a place is an improper speech :Ikonodwl-
is not enough to constitute a presence. man at n on
knows there is such a city as Paris, and knows many things in it;
wlglcelle be concluded, therefore, tg be presept. gpm Paris,hor fgll ping
there, or be resent with t e things e ows t ere
hnow anythjn to be distant from me, how can it be present with
me? For byinowing it to be distant, I know it not to be present.
Besides filling heaven and earth is distinguished here from knowilplg
UI seein : his resence is rendered as an argument to prove `
knowledge. NPOW a proposition, and the proof of that (proposition,
Ili; distinct, and not the same. It cannot ble imagaaii bg, xslt God
Buld vez21emperidefm,aswesa'forwatwo \ teim-
pm ofiih; speech then? 1 know alfthings, I see all things, because
5 'him penpiemia, tum eiiioaeia. Grot. '

