366 CHARNOCK ON THE Arrnrsurns.
I know and see all things* The Holy Ghost here 3.C00l]1II10d5l.‘I»@
himself to the capacity of men; because we know that a man sees
and knows that which is done, where he is corporally present; so he
proves that God knows all things that are done in the most secret
caverns of the heart, because he is everywhere in heaven and earth,
as light is everywhere in the air, and air everywhere in the world.
Hence the schools use the term repletive for the presence of God.
2. Nor by filling of heaven and earth is meant his authority and
power. It would be_1mproperly said of a king, that in regard of
the government of his kingdom, is everywhere by his authorlty, that
he fi ls all the cities and countries of his dominions. “ I, do not I
Iil1?”k That “I” notes the essence of God, as distinguished accord-
ing to our capacity, from the perfections pertaining to his essence,
and is in reason better referred to the substance of God, than to
those things we conceive as attributes in him. Besides, were it
meant only of his authority or power, the argument would not run
well. I see all thin s, because my authority and power fills heaven
and earth. Power doth not always rightly infer knowledge, no, not
in a rational agent. Many things in a kingdom are done by the
authority of the king, that never arrive to the knowledge of the
king. Many things in us are done by the power of our souls, which
yet we have not a distinct knowledge of in our understandings.
here are many motions in sleep, by the virtue of the soul inform-
ing the body, that we have not so much as a simple knowledge of in
our minds. Knowledge is not rightly inferred from power, or power
from knowledge. By filling heaven and earth is meant, therefore, a
filling it with his essence. N o lace can be imagined that is deprived
of the presence of God; and therefore when the Scripture anywhere
Eeaks of the presence of God, it joins heaven and earth together:
e so ills them, that there is no place without him. We do not say
a vessel is full so long as there is an space to contain more. Not a.
part of heaven, nor a part of earth, lint the whole heaven, the whole
earth, at one and the same time. If he were only in one art of
heaven, or one part of earth; nay, if there were any part of lieaven,
or any part of earth void of him, he could not be said to fill
them. “I ‘dll heaven and earth,” not a part of me fills one place,
and another part of me fills another, but I, God, fill heaven and
earth; I am whole God filling the heaven, and whole God, filling
the earth. I H11 heaven, and yet Hll earth; I fill earth, and yet
ill heaven, and ill heaven and earth at one and the same time.
“God fills his cilwn wogks," a heathen philosopher saith!
I. Here is t en a escri tion of God’s resence. 1. B wer
“Am I not a God afar oif?l? a God in the egctension of his   2:
By knowledge, “Shall I not see them ?” 3. By essence; as an un~
deniable ground for inferring the two former: “I fill heaven and
earth.”
Doctrine. God is essentially everywhere present in heaven and
earth. If God be, he must be somewhere; that which is nowhere, is
nothing. Since God is, he is in the world; not in one part of it; for
' Suarez. \‘ Amirald. de Trinitate, p. 57.
| Seneca de Beneiie. lib. 4. c. 8. Ipse opus suum implet.

