ON eon’s oMN1PnnsnNcE. 367
then he were circumscribed by it: if in the world, and only there,
though it be a great space, he were also limited. Some therefore
said, “God was everywhere, and nowhere.”'“ Nowhere, i. e. not
bounded by any place, nor receivin from any place anything for
his preservation or sustainment. §e is everywhere, because _no
creature, either body or spirit, can exclude the presence of his es-
sence; for he is not only near, but in everything (Acts xvii. 28):
“ In him we live, and move, and have our being.” Not absent from
anything, but so present with them, that they live and move in him,
and move more in God, than in the air or earth wherein they are;
nearer to us than our flesh to our bones, than the air to our breath;
he cannot be far from them that live, and have every motion in him.
The apostle doth not say, B_y him, but in him, to show the inwardness
of his presence. As eternity is the perfection whereby he hath
neither beginning nor end, immutability is the perfection “hereby
he hath neither increase nor diminution, so immensity or omnipres-
ence is that whereby he hath neither bounds nor limitation. As he
is in all time, yet so as to be above time; so is he in all places, vet
so as to be above limitation by any place. It was a good expression
ofa heathen to illustrate this, “That God is a s here or circle, whose
centre is everywhere, and circumference nowliere.” His meaning
was, that the essence of God was indivisible; i. c. could not be divi-
ded. It cannot be said, here and there the lines of it terminate; it
is like a line drawn out in infinite s aces, that no point can be con-
ceived where its length and breadtli ends. The sea is a vast mass
of waters; yet to that it is said, “ Hitherto shalt thou go, and no
further.” But it cannot be said of Godl, essence, hitherto it reaches,
and no further; here it is, and there it is not. It is plain, that God
is thus immense, because he is infinite; we have reason and Scrip-
ture to assent to it, though we cannot conceive it. We know that
God is eternal, though eternity is too great to be measured by the
short line of a created understanding. \Ve cannot conceive the vast-
ness and glory of the heavens, much less that which is so great, as
to till heaven and earth, yea (1 Kings viii. 27), “not to be contained
igthe heaven of Heavens.” Things are said to be present, or in a
ace,
P 1. Circumscriptive, as circumscribed. This belongs to things that
have quantity, as bodies that are encompassed by that place wherein
they are; and a body fills but one particular space wherein it is, and
the space is commensurate to every part of it, and every member
hath a distinct lace. The hand is not in the same particular space
that the foot orlliead is.
2. Definitive, which belongs to angels and spirits, which are said
to be in a point, yet so as that they cannot be said to be in another
at the same time.
3. Replelive, filling all laces. This belongs only to God: as he is
not measured bv time, solie is not limited by place. A body or s irit,
because finite, fills but one space; God, because infinite, fills all? yet
so as not to be contained in them, as wine and water is in a vessel.
[Ie is from the height of the heavens to the bottom of the deeps, in
" Thrysostom.

