868 ciumrocrc ON 'rim .u'ramU'rss.
eveizkpoint of the world, and in the whole circle of it, ecyet not
limi by it, but beyond it. N ow this hath been acknowl ged b
the wisest in the world. Some indeed had other notions o Godl
The more ignorant sort of the Jews confined him to the temple.°
And God intimates, that they had such a thought when he asserts
his presence in heaven and earth, in opposition to the temple they
built as his house, and the place of h1S rest.° And the idolaters
among them, thought their gods might be at a distance from them,
which Elias intimates in the scoff he puts u on them (1 Kings xviii.
17), “Cry aloud, for he is a god,” meaning liaal; “either he is talk-
ing, or he is pursuing, or he is in a `ourne_y;" and they followed his
advice, and cried louder (ver. 28), whereby it is evident, they looked
not on it as a mock, but as a truth. And the Syrians called the God
of .Israel the God of the hills, as though his presence were fixed there,
and not in the valleys (1 Kings xx. 23); and their own gods in the
valleys, and not in the mountains; they fancied every god to have
a particular dominion and presence in one pla.ce and not in another,
and bounded the territories of their gods as they did those of their
princes! And some thought him tied to and shut u in their tem-
ples and groves wherein they worshipped him.'l ébme of them
thought God to be conined to heaven, and therefbre sacrificed upon
the highest mountains, that the steam might ascend nearer heaven,
and their praises be heard better in those places which were nearest
to the habitation of God. But the wiser Jews acknowledged it, and
therefore called God place; whereby they denoted his immensity;
he was not contained in any place; every part of the world subsists
b Him: he was a place to himself, greater than anything made bty
ffm. And the wiser heathens acknowledged it also. One cal s
God a mind passing through the universal nature of thin? ;' another,
that He was an' innnite and immense air ;' another, t at it is as
natural to think God is everywhere, as to think that God is: hence
they called God the soul of the world; that as the soul is in every
part of the body to quicken it, so is God in every glart of the world
to suplport it. And there are some resemblances of t is in the world,
thong no creature can fiilly resemble God in any one perfection ,
for then it would not be a creature, but God. But air and light are
some resemblances of it: air is in all the spaces of the world, in the
pores of all bodies, in the bowels of the earth, and extends itself
rom the lowest earth to the highest regions; and the heavens thein-
selves are probably nothing else but a refined kind of air; and light
diffuseth itself throu h the whole air, and every part of it is truly
light, as every part 0? the air is truly air; and though thfiy seem to
be mingled together, yet they are distinct things, and not o the same
essence; so is the essence of God in the whole world, not by diffusion
as air or light, not mixed with any creature, but remaining distinct
from the essence of any created being. Now, when this hath been
owned by men instructed only in the school of nature, it is a greater
l Hierom. on Isa. lxvi. 1. ° Hammond on Matt. vi. 'I.
P Med. Diatrib. Vol. I. pp. '11, 72. ` 1 Dought Analee. exeurs. 61, 118.
P l:\§'~r: Grot. u u Matt. v. 16. Mare; contra Volk. lib.   27. p. 494.
| Vide Minut. goal. p. 20. * Plotin. En 6. lib. 5. cap. L

