\
ON con's omnrnsssucs. 869
shame to any acquainted with the Scripture to deny. For the under-
standing of this, there shall be some propositions premised in
neral.
gellnqz. I. This is negatively to be understood. Our knowledge of
God is most by withdrawing hom him, or denying to him in our
conceptions any weaknesses or imperfections in the creature. As
the intiniteness of God is a denial of limitation of being, so immen-
sity or omnipresence is a denial of limitation of place: and when we
say, God is iolus in every place, we must understand it thus; that he
is not everywhere by parts, as bodies are, as air and light are; He is
everywhere, i. e. his nature hath no bounds; he is not tied to any
place, as the creature is, who, when he is present in one place, is ab-
sent irom another. As no place can be without God, so no place
can com ass and contain him. r
Pro   There is an influential omnipresence of God.
1. llhiversaiwith all creatures. He is present with all things by
his authority, ecause all things are subject to him: b his power,
because all things are sustaine by him: by his knowledge, because
all things are naked before him. He is resent in the world, as a
king is in all arts of his kingdom regallly present: iprovidentially
ggsent with ag, since his care extends to the meanest o his creatmes.
power reacheth all, and his knowledge pierceth all. As eve -
thing in the world was created by God, so everything in the woiillld
is preserved by God; and since preservation is not wholly distinct
from creation, it is necessary God should be resent with everything
while he prmrves it, as well as present with it when he created it.
“ Thou preservest man and beast” (Ps. xxxvi. 6). “He upholds
all things by the word of his power” (Heb. i. 3). There is a virtue
sustaining every creature, that it may not fall back into that nothing
from whence it was elevated by the power of God. All those natu-
ral virtues we call the principles of operation, are foimtains sprin 'ng
from his goodness and power; all thin ` are acted and managedll by
him, as well as preserved by him; ands in this sense God is present
with all creatures; for whatsoever acts another, is present with that
which it acts, by sending forth some virtue and influence whereby
it acts: if free agents do not only live, but move in him and by him
(Acts xvii 28), much more are the motions of other natural agents
by a virtue communicated to them, and u held in them in the time
of their acting. This virtual presence of Gldd is evident to our sense,
a presence we feel; his essential presence is evident in our reason.
T is influential presence may be com ared to that of the sun, which
though at so great a distance from tllie earth, is present in the air
and earth by its li ht, and within the earth by its influence in con-
cocting those metfds which are in the bowels of it, without being
Substantially either of them. God is thus so intimate with every
creature, that there is not the least particle of any creature, but the
marks of his power and goodness are seen in it, and his goodness
doth attend them, and is more swift in its effluxes than the break-
lHgS out of light from the sun, which 'et are more swift than can be
declared; but to say he is in the world only by his virtue, is to ao-
knowledge only-the effects of his power and wisdom in the world,
vol. 1. ~2-L

