870 cnsnsocx ON THE Amminnrrs.
that his eye sees all, his arm supports all, his goodness nourisheth
all, but himself and his essence at a distance from them ;“ and so the
soul of man according to its measure would have in some kind a
more excellent manner of presence in the body, than God according
to the infiniteness of his Being with his creatures; for that doth not
onlly communicate life to the body, but is actually present with it,
an spreads its whole essence through the body and every member
of it. All grant, that God is etlicaciously in every creek of the
world; but some say he is only substantially in heaven.
2. Limited to such subjects that are capaeitated for this or that
kind of presence. Yet it is an omnipresence, because it is a presence
in all the subjects capacitated for it; thus there is a special proijden-
tial presence of God with some in assisting them when he sets them
on work as his instruments for some special service in the world.
As with Cyrus (Isa. xlv. 2), “I will go before thee ;” and with Ne-
buchadnezzar and Alexander, whom he protected and directed to
execute his counsels in the world ; such a presence Judas and others'
that shall not enjoy his glorious presence, had in the working of
miracles in the world. Besides; as there is an effective presence of
God with all creatures, because he produced them and preserves
them, so there is an objective resence of God with rational creatures,
because he oifers himself to them to be known and loved by them.
He is near to wicked men in the offers of his grace, “ Call ye upon
him while he is near” (Isa. lv. 6); besides, there is a ious pres-
ence of God with his people in whom he dwells and mail-:asc his abode,
as in a temple consecrated to him by the graces of the Spirit. “ We
will come" (John xiv. 23), i. e. the Father and the Son, and make
our abode with him. He is present with all by the presence of his
Divinity, but only in his saints bg' a presence of a gracious efficacy;
he walks in the midst of the gol en candlesticks, and hath digniiied
the congregation of his people with the title of Jehovah Shammah,
“ the Lord is there” (Ezck. Xlviii. 35): “in Salem is his tabernacle,
and his dwelling- lace in Sion" (Ps. lxxvi. 2). As he filled the
tabernacle, so he dbth the church with the signs of his presence;
this is not the presence wherewith he fills heaven and earth. His
Spirit is not bestowed upon all to reside in their hearts, enlighten
their minds, and bedew them with refreshing comforts. When the
Apostle speaks of God being “ above all an through all" (Eph. iv.
6), above all in his majesty, through all in his providence ; he doth
not appropriate that as he doth what follows, “ and in you all ;" in
ou al by a special grace; as God was specially present with Christ
by the grace of union, so he is specially present with his people by
the grace of regeneration. So there are several manifestations of
his presence; he hath a presence of glory in heaven, whereby he
comforts the saints; a presence of wrath in hell, whereb he tor-
ments the damned; in heaven he is a God spreading his beams of
light; in hell, a God distributing_ his strokes of justice; h the one
he fills heaven; b the other he fills hell; by his providence and
essence he fills both heaven and earth.
' Znnoh. ' Matt. vii. 22. “ In thy name we have done many wonderful worh'
Y Csjetan in Aquin. Par. i, Qu. 8. Art. 8.

