ON son‘s oMNirnEssNcE. 871
Prap. III. There is an essential presence of God in the world. He
is not only everywhere b his wer upholding the creatures, b his
wisdom understanding them, Eiit by his essence containing them.
That anything is essentially present anywhere, it hath from God;
God is therefore much more present everywhere, for he cannot give
that which he hath not.
1. He is essentially present in all places! It is as reasonable to
think the essence of God to be ever where as to be always. Im-
mensity is as rational as eternity. Tlhat indivisible emence which
reaches through all times may as well reach through all places. It
is more excellent to be always than to be everywhere; for to be
always in duration is intrinsical ; to be everywhere is intrinsic. If
the greater belongs to God, why not the less? As all times are a
moment to his eternity, so all places are as a point to his essence.
As he is larger than all time, so he is vaster than all place. The
nations of the world are to him “as the dust of the balance" or “ dro
of a bucket” (Isa. xl. 15). “The nations are accounted as the small
dust.” The essence of God may well be thought to be present
everywhere with that which is no more than a grain of dust to him,
and in all those isles, which, if put together, “ are a very little thing"
in his hand. Therefore, saith a learned Jew,° if a man were set in
the highest heavens he would not be nearer to the essence of God
than if he were in the centre of the earth. Whv may not the pres~
ence of God in the world be as noble as that of the soul in the body,
which is generally granted to be essentially- in every part of the
body of man, which is but a little world, and animates every mem-
ber by its actual presence, though it exerts not the same operation
in every part Y” The world is less to the Creator than the body to
the soul, and needs more the presence of God than the body needs
the presence of the soul. That glorious body of the sun visits every
part of the habitable earth in twenty-four hours by its beams, which
reaches the troughs of the lowest valleys as well as the pinnacles of
the highest mountains; must We not acknowledge in the Creator of
this sun an infinite greater proportion of presence? Is it not as easy,
with the essence of God, to overspread the whole body of heaven and
earth as it is for the sun to pierce and diffuse itself through the
whole air, between it and the earth, and send up its light also as fin'
to the regions above? Do we not see something like it in sounds
and voices? Is not the same sound of a trumpet, or any other
musical instrument, at thc first breaking out of a blast, in several
places within such a com ass at the same time? Doth not every
ear that hears it receive alike the whole sound of it? And fragrant
odors, scented in several places at the same time, in the same man-
ner; and the organ proper for smelling takes in the same in every
person within the compass of it. How far is the noise of thunder
eard alike to every ear in laces something distant from one another I
And do we daily find such a manner of presence in those things of
so low a concern, and not imagine a kind of presence of God greater
than all those? Is the sound of thunder, the voice of God as it is
mlled, everywhere in such a compass? and shall not the essence of
‘ Ficin. ° Maimonid. l' Ficin.

