372 cmnsocx ON 'rim xrramurns. _
an infinite God be much more everywhere? Those that would con-
fine the essence of God only to eaven, and exclude it from the
earth, run into great inconveniences. It may be demanded whether
he be in one part of the heavens or in the w ole vast body of them.
If in one part of them, his essence is bounded; if he moves from that
part he is mutable, for he chan es a place wherein he was, for another
wherein he was not. If he be always fixed in one part of the
heavens, such a notion would render him little better than a living
statue! If he be in the whole heaven, why cannot his essence pos-
sess a greater space than the whole heavens, which are so vast?
How comes he to be confined within the compass of that, since the
whole heaven com asseth the earth? If he be in the whole heaven
he is in places farther distant one from another than any part of the
earth can be from the heavens; since the earth is like a centre in
the midst of a circle, it must be nearer to every part of the circle
than some parts of the circle can be to one another. If; theleftlei
his essence ossesses the whole heavens, no reason can be rende
wh he doth, not also possess the earth, since also the earth is but a
littie point in comparison of the vastness of the heavens: ii, there-
fore, e be in ever part of the heavens, why not in every part of
the earth? The Sieripture is plain (Ps. cxxxix. 7-92: “ Whither shall
I go from thy Spirit? or whither shall I ily from t y tpergsence? If
I ascend up to heaven, thou art there; if make my in hell, be-
hold thou a.rt there; if I take the wings of the morning, and dwell
in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me,
and thy right hand shall uphold me.” If he be in heaven, earth,
hell, sea, he fills all places with his presence. His presence is here
asserted in places the most distant from one another. All the places
then between heaven and earth are possessed by his agresence. It is
not meant of his knowledge, for that the Psalmist h s ken of be-
fore (ver. 2, S), “Thou understandest my thoughts aiiix? o‘E'; thou
art acquainte with all my waysz" besides, “thou art there ;” not
thy wisdom or knowledge, but thou, thy essence, not only th virtue.
For, having before spoken of his omniscience, he proves tgat such
knowledge could notbe in God, unless he were resentin his essence
in all places, so as to be excluded from none. %e Hlls the depths of
hell, the extension of the earth, and the heights of the heavens.
When the Scripture mentions the power of God only, it ex resseth
it by hand or arm; but when it mentions the Spirit of (ipod, and
dot not intend the Third Person in the Trinity, it signifies the
nature and essence of God. And so here, when he saith, “Whither
shall I go from thy Spirit?" he adds, exegetically, “Whither shall
I fly from thy “presence ?” or (Heh) “face :” and the face of God in
Scripture sign' es the essence of God (Exod.   20, 23% “ Thou
canst not see my face,” and “ My face shall not be seen.” e effects
of his power, wisdom, and providence are seen, which are his back
parts, ut not his face. The effects of his power and wisdom are
seen in the world, but his essence is invisible ; and this the Psalmist
ele antly expresseth, Had I wings endued with as much quickness
as gba first dawnings of the morning light, or the first darts of any
° Hornbeck Soun. Part I. p. 808.

