on eon’s oumrnssnncs. 378
sunbeallrpllthat sprelads itself througlh the genfiisphlere,    
man `esinassortasaceas cantin ato t, so
findlrhy presence in all tplaibes before me, and couldlgnt fly out of
the intimte compass of y essence. _
2. “ He is essentially present with all creatures.” If he be in all
places, it follows that he is with all creatures in those places; as he
is in heaven, so he is with all angels; as he is in hell, so he is with
all devils: as he is in the earth and sea, he is with all creatures in-
habiting those elements; as his essential presence was the ground of
the first being of things by creation, so it is the ground o the con-
tinued being of things bly conservation; as his essential presence
was the original, so it is t e support of the existence of all the crea-
tures. What are all those magniicent expressions of his creative
virtue, but testimonies of his essential resence at the laying the
foundation of the world (Isa. xl. 12), “ when he measured the waters
in the hollow of his hand, meted out heaven with the span, and
comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and wei hed the
mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance Y” He sets §orth the
power and majesty of God in the creation and preservation of
things, and every expression testifies his presence with them. The
waters that were upon the face of the earth at ‘dist were no more
thanadrop in the palm of a man’s hand, which in every art is
touched by his hand; and thus he is equally present with the black-
est devils, as well as the brightest angels; with the lowest dust, as
well as with the most s arkling sun. He is equally present with the
damned and the blessedz as he is an infinite Being, but not in regard
of his goodness and grace. He is equally present with the good and
the bad, with the scoiling Athenians, as we as the believing apostles,
inregard of his essence, but not in regard of_ the breathing _of his
divine virtues u n them to make them like himself (Acts xvn. 27).
“He is not tar fiigm ever one of 118; for in him we live, and move,
and have our being.” The apostle includes all; he tells them they
should seek the Lord; the Lorg tlgit they wereto seek, is God eases-
tiall considered. \Ve are, in ee to seek the rfections of o ,
thatyglitter in his works, but to the end that theypzhould direct us to
the seeking of God himself in his own nature and essence;~1 and,
therefore, what follows, “ In him we live,” is to be understood, not
of his power and goodness, perfections of his nature, distinguished
according to our manner of conception from his essence, but of the
essential presence of God with his creatures. If he had meant it of
his eflicacy in reserving us, it had not been any mproof of his near-
Dem to us. Wlio would go about to prove the b y or substance of
the sun to be near us because it doth warm and enlighten us, when
0\1l‘ sense evidenceth the distance of it? We live in the beams of
the sun, but we cannot be said to live in the sun, which is so far
istant goin us. Tlhe eitkylgession stepms to be mp)re emppatical tlhan
inten an less t an essenti resence; ut we ive in im
not only as axe eflicient cause of our life, but as the foundation sus-
taining our lives and motions, as if he were like air, diffused round
lbout us; and we move in him, as Austin saith, as a sponge in the
4 Amyrald. de Trinit.

