874 crunnocx ON THE srmrsnrns.
sea, not containing him, but being contained by him. He com ass-
eth all, is encompassed by none; he ills all, is comprehended' hy
none. The Creator contains the world, the world contains not the
Creator; as the hollow of the hand contains the water, the water in
the hollow of the hand contains not the hand; and therefore some
have chose to say, rather, that the world is in God, itlives and movm
in him, than that God is in the world. If all things thus live and
move in him, then he is present with everything that hath life and
motion; and as long as the devils and damned have life, and motion,
and being, so long is he with them; for whatsoever lives and moves,
lives and moves in him. This essential presence is,
(1) Without any mixture. I fill heaven and earth; not, I am
mixed with heaven and earth: his essence is not mixed with the
creatures; it remains entire in itself The spon e retains the nature
of a sponge, though encompassed by the sea, and moving in it; and
the sea still retains its own nature. God is most simple; his essence
therefore is not mixed with an fthing. The light of the sun is pres-
ent with the air, but not mixed with it; it remains light, and the air
remains air; the light of the sun is diifused through all the hemis-
phere, it pierceth all transparent bodies, it seems to mix itself with
all things, yet remains unmixed and undivided; the light remains
light, and the air remains air; the air is not light, though it be en-
lightened. Or, take this similitude: When many candles are lighted
up in a room, the light is all together, yet not mixed with one an
other; every candle hath a particular light belon 'ng to it, which
may be separated in a moment, by removing one canélle from another;
but if they were mixed, they could not be separated, at least so
easily. God is not formally one with the world, or with any creature
in the world by his presence in it; nor can any creature in the
world, no, not t e soul of man, or an angel, come to be essentially
one with God, though God be essentially present with it.
(2.) The essential presence is without any division of himself “I
iill heaven and earth,” not part in heaven, and part,in earth; I fill
one as well as the other: one part of his essence is not in one place,
and another part of his essence in another place, he would then be
changeable; for that part of his essence which were now in this
place, he might alter it to another, and place that part of his essence
which were in another place to this; but he is undivided everywhere.
As his eternity is one indivisible point, though in our conception we
divide it into past, present, and to come, so the whole wor d is as a
point to him, in regard of place, as before was said; it is as a small
ust, and grain of dust: it is impossible that one part of his essence
can be separated from another, for he is not a body, to have one part
separable from another. The light of the sun cannot be cnt into
parts, it cannot be shut into any ‘place and kept there, it is entire in
every place. Shall not God, w o gives the light that power, be
much more present himself? Whatsoever hath parts is finite, but
God is infinite, therefore hath no parts of his essenw. Besides, if
there were such a division of his being, he would not be the most
simple and uncompounded being, but would be made up of various
parts; he would not be a Spirit, for parts are evidences of composi-

