on con’s o1rN1r1znssNon. 375
tion; and it could not be said that God is here or there, but only a
part of God here, and aépart of God there. But he ills heaven and
earth; he is as much a od in the earth beneath as in heaven above
Qkut. iv. 39); entirely in all places, not by scraps and fragments of
ms essence
(3.g This mential presence is not by multiplication. For that
tvilhic is infinite cannot multiply itself, or make itself more or greatfzr
an it was
(4.) This essential resence is not by extension or diffusion, as a
piece of gold ma be geaten out to cover a large com ass of und;
no, if God should create millions of worlds he wouldpbe in th-Zn all,
not by stretching out his being, but by the intiniteness of his being;
not by a new growth of his being, but by the same essence he had
fron( etemity: upon the same reasons mentioned before, his sim-
plicity and indivisibility.
(5.) But totally. ’l‘here is no space, not the least, wherein God is
not wholly, according to his essence, and wherein his whole substance
doth not exist; not a part of heaven can be designed wherein the
Creator is not wholly; as he is in one art of heaven, he is in every
pm of heaven, Some kind of resemllilance we may have from the
water of the sea, which ills the great space of the world, and is dit?
fused through all; et the essence of water is in every drop of water
ID the sea, as mucli as the whole; and the same quality of water,
though it comes short in quantity; and why shall we not allow God
:nobler way of presence without diffusion, as is in that? or take
this resemblance; since God likens himself to light in the Scripture,
“_he covereth himself with light."° A crystal g obe hung u in the
hir hath light all about it, all within it, everly part is pierced by it,
wherever you see the crystal you see the lig t; the lig t in one part
of the c stal cannot be distinguished from the light in the other
part; andthe whole essence of light is in every part; and shall not
G91 be as much present with his creatures, as one creatine can be
with another ?f God is totally everywhere by his own simple sub-
stance. °
Prop. IV. God is present beyond the world. He is within and
above all places, thou h laces should be infinite in number; as he
Wqs before and beyond all) time, so he is above and beyond all place;
being from eternity before any real time, he must also be without as
well as within any real space; if God were only confined to the
yorld, he would be no more infinite in his essence than the world is
lgoguantity; as a moment cannot be conceived from eternity, wherein
was not in being, so a space cannot be conceived in the mind
of man, wherein God is not present; he is not contained in the world
nor in the heavens (1 Kings viii. 27). “ But will God indeed dwell
On the earth? Behold, the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee."
Solomon wonders that God should appoint a, temple to be erected to
htm upon the earth, when he is not contained in the vast circuit of
the heavens; his essence is not straitened in the limits of any created
fork; he is not contained in the heavens, i. e. in the manner that he
kt there; but he is there in his essence, and therefore cannot be con-
' Padv. 2 John i. 5. “ God is light, and in him isno darkness at all. f Bernard.

