876 cmumocx ON rm: urrnrnnrrs.
tained there in his essence. If it should be meant only of his power
and providence, it would conclude also for his essence; if his wer
and providence were innnite, his essence must be so too; for tli; in-
finiteness of his essence is the ground of the infiniteness of hispower.
It can never enter into any thought, that a Bnite essence can have
an infinite power, and that an infinite power can be without an infi-
nite essence; it cannot be meant of his providence, as if Solomon
should say, the heaven of heavens cannot contain thy providence;
for naming the heaven of heavens, that which encirdes and bounds
the other parts of the world, he could not suppose a providence to
be exercised where there was no object to exercise it about; as no
creature is mentioned to be beyond the uttermost heaven, which he
calls here the heaven of heavens: besides, to understand it of his
providence, doth not consist with Solomon’s admiration : he wonders
that God, that hath so immense an essence, should dwell in a temple
made with hands; he could not so much wonder at his providence
in those things that immediately concern his worship. Solomon
plainly asserts this of God, That he was so far from being bounded
within the rich wall of the temple, which with so much cost he had
named for the glory of his name, that the richer palace of the heaven
of heavens could not contain him; it is true, it could not contain
his power and wisdom, because his wisdom could contrive othenkind
of worlds, and his power erect them. But doth the meaning of that
wise king reach no farther than this? Will the power and wisdom
of God reside on the earth? He was too wise to ask such a ines-
tion, since every object that his eyes met with in the world reso ved
him, that the wisdom and power of God dwelt upon the earth, and
glittered in everything he had creat/ed; and reason would assure
im that the power that had framed this world, was able to frame
any more; but Solomon, considering the immensity of God’s em/ence,
wond that God should order a house to be built for him, as if he
wantefdisroofs and coverings, and habitation, as bodily creatures do.
Will God indeed dwell in a tern le, who hath an essence so immense
as not to be contained in the llieaven of heavens? It is not the
heaven of heavens that can contain him, his substance. Here he
asserts the immensity of his essence, and his presence not onlv in
the heaven, but beyond the heavens; he that is not contained in
the heavens, as a man is in a chamber, is without, and above, and
beyond the heavens; it is not said, they do not contain him, but it
is impossible they should contain him; they cannot contain him. It
is impossible, then, but that he should be above them; he that is
without the compass of the world, is not bounded b the limits of
the world, as his power is not limited by the things life hath made,
but can create innumerable worlds, so can his essence be in innume-
rable spaces; for as he hath power enough to make more worlds, so
he hath essence enough to ill them, and therefore cannot be con-
fined to what he hath already created; innumerable worlds cannot
be a sufficient lace to contain God ; he can only be a sufficient place
to himself ;s gle that was before the world, and place, and all things,
was to himself a world, a place, and everythingzh He is really out
I Petar. \ Maccor. loc. onmmun. cap. 19, p. 163
l

