. ON GOD’S OHNIPRESENCE. 377
of the world in himself, as he was in himself before the creation of
the world: as because God was before the foundation of the world,
we conclude his eternity ; so because hc is without the bounds of the
world, we conclude his immensity, and from thence his omnipresence.
The world cannot be said to contain him, since it was created by
him; it cannot contain him now, who was contained by nothing be-
fore the world was: as there was no place to contain him before the
world was, there can be no place to contain him since the world was.
God might create more wor ds, circular and round as this, and those
could not be so contiguous, but some spaces would be left between;
as, take three round balls, lay them as close as you can to one an-
other, there will be some spaces between ; none would say but God
would be in these spaces, as well as in the world he had created,
though there were nothing real and positive in those spaces: why
should we then exclude God from those im 'nary spaces without
the world? God might also create many worilgh, and separate them
by distances, that they might not touch one another, but be at a great
distance from one another; and wou.ld not God fill them as well as he
doth this? if so, he must also fill the spaces between them; for if he
were in all those worlds, and not in the s aces between those worlds,
his essence would be divided; there would be gaps in it, his essence
would be out into parts, and the distance between every part of his
esence, would be as great as the s ace between each world. The
essence of God may be conceived thien well enough to be in all those
infinite spaces where he can erect new worlds.
I shall give one place more to prove both these ropositions, viz.
that God is essentiall in every art of the world? and essentially
above oius without tlie world   lxvi. 1): “The heaven is my
throne, and the earth is m footstool." He is essentially in every
part of the world; he is in lileaven and earth at the same time, as a
man is upon his throne and his footstool. God describes himself in
a human shape, accommodated to our capacity; as if he had his
head in heaven, and his feet on earth. Doth not his essence then,
fill all intermediate spaces between heaven and earth? As when the
head of a man is in the upper part of a room, and his feet upon the
floor, his bod Glls up the s ace between the head and his feet: this
is meant of tlie essence of Giiod; it is a similitude drawn from kings
sitting upon the throne, and not their power and authority, but the
feet of their persons are supported by t e footstool; so here it is not
meant only of the perfections of God, but the essence of God. Be-
sides, God seems tc tax them with an erroneous conceit they had,
as though his essence were in the temple, and not in any part of
the world; therefore God makes an opposition between heaven and
earth, and the tem le: “Where is the house that ou built unto
me? and where is the place of my rest ?” Had he understood it only
of his providence, it had not been anything against their mistake ; for
they granted his providence to be not on y in the tem le, but in all
pins of the world. “Where is the house that you buiiid to me ;” to
e, not to my wer or providence, but think to include Me within
lhose walls. lggain, it s ows God to be above the heavens, if the
heavens be his throne; he sits upon them, and is above them, as

