878 cnamrocx ON mn a'rrn1BU'rEs.
kings are above the thrones on which they sit. So it cannotbe
meant of his providence, because no creatine being without the
gs here of the heavens, there is nothing of the power and the provi-
dldnce of God visible there, for there is nothing for him to emplo
his providence about; for providence supposeth a creature in actual
being; it must be therefore meant of his essence, which is above the
world and in the world. And the like proof ou ma see (Job. xi
7, 8), “It is as high as heaven, what canst tliyou dofy deeper than
hell, what canst thou know? the measure thereof is longer than the
earth, and broader than the sea.” VVhere he intends the unsearcha-
bleness of God’s wisdom, but proves it by the infinitenew of his es-
sence, (Heb.) “ he is the height of the heavens,” he is the top of all
the heavens; so that, when you have begun at the lowest part, and
traced him through all the creatures, you will find his essence hlling
all the creatures, to be/ at the top of the world, and infinitely be
ond it.
y Prop. V. This is the property of God, incommunicable to any
creature. As no creature can be eternal and immutable, so no crea-
ture can be immense, because it cannot be infinite; nothing can be
of an infinite nature, and therefore nothing of an immense presence
but God. It cannot be communicated to the human nature of Christ,
though in union with the Divine ;i some indeed argue, that Christ in
regard of his human nature is everywhere, because he sits at the
right hand of God, and the right hand of God is everywhere. Hia
sitting at the Tight hand of God signifies his exaltation, and cannot
with an reason, be extended to such a kind of arguing. “ The
hearts oi? kings are in the hand of Grod;” are the hearts of kings
everywhere, because God’s hand is ever where? The souls of the
righteous are in the hand of God; is the soul, therefore, of every
righteous man everywhere in the world? The right hand of God
is from eternity ; is the humanit of Christ, therefore, from eternity,
because it sits at the iight handy of God? The right hand of God
made the world; did the humanity of Christ, therefore, make heaven
and earth? the humanity of Christ must then be confounded with
his divinity; be the same with it, not united to it. All creatures
are distinct from their Creator, and cannot inherit the properties es-
sential to his nature, as eternity, irnmensity, immutability, omni ies
ence, omniscience; no angel, no soul, no creature can be in all pliices
at once; before they can be so they must be immense, and so must
cease to be creatures, and commence God; this is impossible.
II. Reasons to prove God’s essential presence. &ason I. Because
he is infinite. As he is inhnite, he is everywhere; as he is simple,
his whole essence is everywhere: for, in regard of his infiniteness,
he hath no bounds; in regard of his simplicity, -he hath no parts:
and, therefore, those that deny God’s omnipresence, though they
pretend to own him infinite, must really conceive him finite. p
1. God is infinite in his perfections. None can set bounds to ter-
minate the greatness and excellency of God (Ps. cxlv. 3); “His
atness is unsearchable,” Sept. °<’>¢ Frm néauc, there is no end, no
§iEitation. What hath no end is infinite; his power is infinite (Job
* Rivet. Ps. ex. p. 801, col 2
-»

