ON Gone OMNIPRESENCE. 379
v. 9): “ which doth atthings and unsearchable ;"-no end of those
things he is able to if His wisdom iniinite (Ps. cxlvii. 5); he under-
stands all things past, present, and to come; what is already made,
what is possible to be made. His duration innnite (Job xxxvi. 26):
“The niunber of his ears cannot be searched out,” f2nég~mo;. 'lo
make a ‘dnite thing ofy nothing is an argument of an infinite virtue.
Infinite power can only extract something out of the barren womb
of nothing; but all things were drawn forth by the word of God, the
heavens, and all the host of them; the sun, moon, stars, the rich
embellishments of the world, appeared in being “at the breath of his
mouth” (Ps. xxxiii. 6). The author, therefore, must be infinite;
and since nothing is the cause of God, or of any perfection in him,--
since he derives not his being, or the least spark of his glorious na-
ture, from anithing without him,-he cannot be limited in any part
of his nature y an thin without him; and, indeed, the infiniteness
of his power and   other perfections is asserted b the prophet,
when he tells us that “the nations are as a drop of a bucket, or the
dust of the balance, and less than nothing and vanity" (Isa. xl. 15, 17),
they are all so in regard of his power, wisdom, &.c. Conceive what
a little thing a rain of dust or sand is to all the dust that may be
made by the ruibish of a house: what a little thing the heap of the
rubbish of a house is to the vast heap of the rubbish of a whole city,
such an one as London; how little that, also, would be to the dust
of a whole empire; how inconsiderable that, also, to the dust of one
aluarter of the world, Europe or Asia; how much less that, still, to
e dust of' the whole worl l The whole world is composed of an
unconceivable number of atoms, and the sea of an unconceivable
number of drops; now what a little grain of dust is in comparison
to the dust of the whole world-a drop of water from the sea, to all
the drops remaining in the sea--that is the whole world to God.
Conceive it still less, a mere nothing, yet is it all less than this in
comparison of God; there can be nothing more magnificently expres-
sive of the iniiniteness of God to a human conception, than this ex-
pression of God himself in the prophet. In the erfection of a crea-
ture, something still may be thou ht greater to Ibe added to it; but
God containing all perfections in Tiimself formally, if they be mere
perfectious, and eminently, if they be but erfections in the creature,
mixed with imperfection, nothing can be ihought greater, and there-
fore every one of them is infinite.
2. If his perfections be infinite, his essence must be so. How God
can have infinite perfections, and a finite emence, is unconceivable
by a human or angelical understanding; an infinite power, an inhnite
Wflsdom, an ininite duration, must needs speak an infinite essence;
since the ininiteness of his attributes is grounded upon the infinite-
ness of his essence: to own infinite perfections in a ‘finite subject is
Oontradictory. The manner of acting by his power, and knowing
bij his wisdom, cannot exceed the manner of being by his essence.
His perfections flow from his essence, and the principle must be of
lhe same rank with what flows from it; and, if we conceive his
dsence to be the cause of his perfections, it is utterly impossible that
H11 lllllllllb effect should arise from a Bnite cause: but, indeed, his
e

