880 cH.mNocK ON rim A'rraIBU'rEs.
gerfections are his essence; for though we conceive the essence oi
od as the subject, and the attributes of God as faculties and qualities
in that subject, according to our weak model, who cannot conceive
of an ininite God without some manner of likeness to ourselves-
who find understanding, and will, and power in us distinct from our
substance; yet truly and really there is no distinction between his
essence and attributes; one is inseparable from the other. His power
and wisdom are his essence; and therefore to maintain God infinite
in the one, andtinite in the other, is to make a monstrous od, and
have an unreasonable notion of the Deity; for there woulg be the
greatest disproportion in his nature, since there is no greater dis ro-
portion can possibly be between one thing and another than tliere
is between nite and infinite. God must not only then be com-
pounded, but have pizrts of the greatest distance from one another
in nature; but God, ing~the most simple being without the least
composition, both must be equally infinite: if, then, his essence be
not infinite, his power and wisdom cannot be infinite, which is both
against scrilpture and reason. Again, how should his essence be
finite, and is perfections be innnite, since nothing out of himself
gave them either the one or the other ?k Again, either the essence
can be infinite, or it cannot; if it cannot, there must be some cause
of Lhat implpssibilhty; thaie can be nothing glibc?   pecause
not ing wit out im can as owerful as ` se , muc ess too
powerful for him; nothing withiri) him can be an enemy to his high-
est perfection; since he is necessarily what he is, he must be neces-
sari y the most perfect being, and therefore necessarily infinite, since
to be something infinite] is a greater perfection than to be some~
thing finitel :1 if he can be innnite he is infinite, otherwise he could
'be greater than he is, and so more blessed and more perfect than he
is, which is impossible: for being the most perfect Being, to whom
nothin can be added, he must needs be infinite.
8. Lf? therefore, God have an infinite essence, he hath an infinite
presence. An infinite essence cannot be contained in a inite place,
as those things which are Hnite have a bounded space wherein they
are; so that which is infinite hath an unbounded space; for, -as finite-
ness speaks limitedness, so iniiniteness speaks un oundedness; and
if we grant to God an infinite duration, there is no diiiicult in ac-
knowledgingean iniinite presence: indeed, the iniiniteness ofy God is
_zgopropelrtiy longing toi hlim  regard of tigie andmplace; he is
un e no ace, an 'mi to no time. gain, ' nite essence
may as well bepeverywhere, as innnite power reaches everything;
it mav as well be present with every being, as infinite power in its
working ma be present with nothingto bring it into being. Where
God wor,ks by his power, he is present in his essence; because his
power and his essence cannot be separated; and therefore his power,
wisdom, goodness, cannot be anywhere where his essence is not:
his essence cannot be severed from his power, nor his power from
his essence; for the power of God is nothing but God acting, and
the wisdom of God nothing but God knowing. As the power of God
i Am rald de Trinitat. 89.
| Deunirest aotus parvusiit nullun hsbet potentiam paseivam.

