ON GOD’S OMNIPREBENCE. 381
is always, so is his essence--as the power of God is everywhere, so
is his essence: whatsoever God is, he is alway, and everywhere. To
confine him to a place, is to measure his essence; as to confine his
actions, is to limit his ower; his essence being no less infinite than
his power and his wisdbm, can be no more bounded than his power
and wisdom; but the are not separable from his ewnce, yea, they
are his esence. If (irod did not fill the whole world, he would be
determined to some place, and excluded from others; and so his
substance would have bounds and limits, and then something might
be conceived eater than God; for we may conceive that a creature
maybe made gy God of so vast a greatness as to fill the whole world,
for the power of God is able to make a body that should take up the
whole s ace between heaven and earth, and reach to every corner
of it. gut nothing can be conceived by any creature greater than
God; he exceeds all things, and is exceeded by none. God, there-
fore, cannot be included in heaven, nor included in the earth; can
not be contained in either of them; for, if we should imagine them
vaster than they are, yet still they would be finite; and if his essence
were contained in them, it could be no more infinite than the world
which contains it, as water is not of a lar er compass than the vessel
which contains it. Ifthe essence of Gm? were limited, either in the
heavens or earth, it must needs be finite, as the heaven and earth
are; but there is no proportion between iinite and infinite; God,
therefore, cannot be contained in them. If there were an infinite
body, that must be everlywhere; certainly, then, an infinite Spirit
must be everywhere; un ess we will account him finite, we can ren
der no reason why he should not be in one creature as well as in
another. If he be in heaven, which is his creature, why can he not
be in the earth, which is as well his creature as the heavens?
Reason II. Because of the continual operation of God in the world.
This was one reason which made the heathen believe that there was
an infinite Spirit in the vast body of the world, acting in everithing,
and producing those admirable motions which we see everyw ere in
nature: that cause which acts in the most Hperfect manner, is also in
the most perfect manner present with its e ects.
God preserves all, and therefore is in all; the apostle thought it a
good induction (Acts xvii. 27), “He is not far from us, for in him
we live." For being as much as because, shows, that from his opera-
tion he concluded his real presence with all: it is not, His virtue is
not far from everv one of us, but He, his substance, himself; for,
none that acknowledge a God will deny the absence of the virtue
of God from any part of the world. He works in everything, every-
thing lives and works in him; therefore he is present with all:f“ or
rather, if things live, the are in God, who gives them life. If things
live, God is in them, and' gives them life; if things move, God is in
them, and gives them motion; if things have an being, God is in
them, and gives them bein ; if God withdraws liimselt, they pres-
ently lose their being, and Sicrcfore some have compared the crea-
ture to the impression of a seal upon the water, that cannot be pre~
lerved but by the presence of the seal. As his presence was actual
' Pont.

