382 CHABNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
with what he created, so his presence is actual with what he preserves,
since creation and preservation do so little diifer; if God creates things
by his essential presence, by the same he supports them; if his sub-
stance cannot be disjoined from his preserving power, his power and
wisdom cannot be separated from his essence; where there are the
marks of the one, there is the presence of the other; for it is by his
essence that he is powerful and wise; no man.can distinguish the
one from the other in a simple being; God doth not preserve and
act things by a virtue diffused from him. It may be demanded
whether that virtue be distinct from God; if it be not, it is then the
essence of God; if it be distinct it is a creature, and then it may be
asked, how that virtue which reserves other things, is preserved
itself; it must be ultimately resorived into the essence of God, or else
there must be a runnin in infinitum: or else,” is that virtue of God
a substance, or not? E it endued with understandin , or not? If
it hath understanding, how doth it diifer from Godg If it wants
understanding, can any imagine that the support of the world, the
guidance of all creatures, the wonders of nature, can be wrought,
preserved, managed by a virtue that hath nothing of understanding
in it? If it be not a substance, it can much less be able to roduce
such excellent operations as the preserving all the kinds of things in
the world, and ordering them to perform such excellent ends; this
virtue is, therefore, God himself-the innnite wer and wisdom of
God; and therefore, wheresoever the eifects opihese are seen in the
world, God is essentially present: some creatures, indeed, act at a
distance by a virtue diffused. But such a manner of acting comes
from a limitedness of nature, that such a nature cannot be everywhere
present and extend its substance to all parts. To act by a virtue,
speaks the subject Hnite, and it is a part of indigence: kings act in
t eir kindoms by ministers and messengers, because the cannot act
otherwise; but God being infinitely perfect, works all things in all
immediately 31 Cor. xii. 6). lllumination, sanctiiication, grace, Etc.,
are the imme iate works of God in the heart, and immediate agents
are present with what they do: it is an argument of the greater per-
fection of a being, to know things immediately, which are done in
several laces, than to know them at the second hand by instruments;
it is no less a perfection to be everywhere, rather than to be tied to
one place of action, and to act in other places by instruments, for
want of a power to act immediately itself God, indeed. acts by
means and second causes in his providential dispensations in the
world, but this is not out of any defect of wer to work all imme-
diately himself; but he thereby accommofiaotes his way of acting to
the nature of the creature, and the order of things which he hath set-
tled in the world. And when he works by means, he acts with those
means, in those means, sustains their faculties and virtues in them,-
concurs with them by his power; so that God's actin by means
doth rather strengthen his essential presence than weaien it, since
there is a necessary dependence of the creatiues upon the Creator in
their being and acting; and what the are, they are b the power
of God; what they act, they .act in tlie power of God? concurring
' Amyrald de Trinitat, p. 106. 107.

