on cons oimrrnssnncm. 388
with them; they have their motion in him as well as their being;
and where the wer of God is, his essence is, because they are
inse arable; ancim so this omnipresence ariseth from the siinplicit
of the nature of God; the more vast anything is, the less continecli
All that will acknowledge God so great, as to be able to work all
things by his will, without an essential presence,»cannot imagine him
upon the same reason, so little as to be contained in, and bounded
by any place.
Reason III. Because of his suipreme perfection. No perfection is
wanting to God; but an uuboun ed essence is a perfection; a limited
one is an imperfection. Though it be a perfection in a man to be
wise, yet it is an imperfec/_lon that his wisdom cannot rule all the
things that concern hir.; though it be a perfection to be present in
a place where his affairs lie, yet is it an imperfection that e cannot
be resent everywhere in the midst of all his concerns; if any man
could be so, it would be universally owned as a prime perfection in
him above others: is that which would be a perfection in man to be
denied to God 7° as that which hath life is more perfect than that
which hath not life; and that which hath sense is more perfect than
that which hath only life as the plants have; and what hath reason,
is more perfect than that which hath only life and sense, as the beasts
have; so what is everywhere, is more perfect than that which is
bounded in some narrow confines: if a power of motion be more
excellent than to be bed-rid, and swiftness in a creature be a more
excellent endowment than to be slow and snail-like, then to be every-
where without motion, is inconceivably a greater excellency than to
be everywhere successively by motion. God sets forth his readiness
to help his people and punish his enemies, or his omnipresence, by
swiftness, or “flying upon the wings of the wind" (Ps.xviii.1O): the
wind is in every part of the air, where it blows; it cannot be said
that it is in this or that point of the air where you feel it, so as to
exclude it from another part of the air where you are not; it seems
to possess all at once. If the Divine essence had any bounds of
place, it would be im erfect, as well as if it had bounds of time;
where anything hath limitation, it hath some defect in being; and
therefore if God were confined or concluded, he would be as good as
nothing in regard of infiniteness. \Vhence should this restraint arise?
there is no power above him to restrain him to a certain space; if
so, then he would not be God, but that power which restrained him
would be God: not from his own nature, for the being everywhere
implies no contradiction to his nature; if his own nature determined
him to a certain place, then if he removed from that place, he would
act against his nature; to conceive any such thing of God is highly
absurd. It cannot be thought God should voluntaril impose any
such restraint or conhnement upon himself; this would be to deny
himself a perfection he might have; if God have not this erfcction,
it is either because it is inconsistent with his nature; or, Because he
cannot have it; or, because he will not. The former cannot be; for
if he hath impressed upon air and light a resemblance of his excel-
lency, to difiilse themselves and fill so vast a space, is such an excel-
- Amyrald de rrmattt, p. 14, rs.

