884 cnumoex ON run xrrnmurns.
lency inconsistent with the Creator more than the creature? whatso-
ever perfection the creature hath, is eminently in God. “ Understand,
O ye brutish among the peo le: and ye fools, when will you be wise?
He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye,
shall he not see? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he
know?" (Ps. xciv. 8, 9.) By the same reason he that hath given
such a power to those creatures, air and light, shall not he be much
more fi ling all spaces of the world? It is so clear a rule, that the
'Psalmist lixes a folly and brutishness upon those that deny it; it is
not therefore inconsistent with his nature, it were not then a perfec-
tion but an imperfection; but whatsoever is an exeellency in crea-
tures, cannot in a way of eminency _be an im erfection in God; if it
be then a perfection, and God want it, it is Eecause he cannot have
it; where, then, is his power? How can he be then the fountain of
his own Being? Ifhe will not, where is his love to his own nature
and glor ? since no creature would deny that to itself which it can
have, and' is an excellency to it; God, therefore, hath not only a
power or Btness to be everywhere, but he is actuall everywhere.
Reason IV. Because of his immutability. If God did not fill all
the spaces of heaven and earth, but only possess one, 'et it must be
acknowledged that God hath a power to move   to another.
It were absurd to fix God in a part of the heavens, like a star
in an orb, without a power of motion to another place. If he
be therefore essentially in heaven, may he not be upon the earth if
he please, and transfer his substance from one place to another? to
say he cannot, is to deny him a perfection which he hath bestowed
upon his creatures; the angels, his messengers, are sometimes in
heaven, sometimes on the earth; the eagles, meaner creatures, are
sometimes in the air out of sight, sometimes upon the earth. If he
doth move, therefore, and recede from one place and settle in an-
other, doth he not declare himself mutable by changing places ?-by
being where he was not before, and in not being where he was be-
fore? He would not fill heaven and earth at once, but successive] ;
no man can be said to fill a room, that moves from one part ofya
room to another; if therefore any in their imaginations stake God
to the heavens, the ' render him less than his creatures; if they
allow him a ower ot? motion from one place to another, they conceive
him changealble; and in either of them they own him no greater than
a Hnite and limited Being; limited to heaven, if they fix him there;
limited to that space to which they imagine him to move.
Reason V. Because of his omnipotency. The Almightincss of
God is a notion settled in the minds of all,-that God can do what~
soevcr he leases, everything that is not against the purity of his
nature, and doth not imply a contradiction in itself; he can there-
tore create millions ot' worlds greater than this; and millions of
heavens greater than this heaven he hath already created; if so, he
is then in inconceivable spaces beyond this world, tor his essence
is not l"s= r|ar'i°<'>','\'\‘r t‘. in his power; and his power is not to bc
thought ofa further extent than his essence; he cannot bc excluded
therefore from those vast spaces where his power may 6x those
worlds if he please; if so, it is no wonder that he should fill this

