on sons omnrnssnncn. 885
world: and there is no reason to exclude God from the narrow spaco
of this world, that is not contained in infinite spaces beyond the
world. God is wheresoever he hath a power to act; but he hath a
power to act everywhere in the world, everywhere out of the world;
e is therefore everywhere in the world, everywhere out of the world.
Before this world was made, he had a power to make it in the space
where now it stands y~ -was he not then unlimitedly where the world
now is, before the world received a being by his powerful word?
Why should he not then be in every part of the world now? Can
it be thought that God who was immense before, should, after he
had created the world, contract himself to the limits of one of his
creatures, and tie himself to a particular place of his own creation,
and be less after his creation than he was before? This might also
betprosecuted by an argument from his eternity. What is eternal
in uration, is immense in essence; the same reason which renders
him eternal, renders him immense; that which proves him to be
always, will prove him to be everywhere.
Il I. The third thing is, Proposxtions for the further clearing this
doctrine from any exceptions.
1. This truth is not weakened by the expressions in Scripture,
where God is said to dwell in heaven and in the temple.
(1.) He is indeed said to sit in heaven (Ps. ii. 4), and to dwell on
high (Ps. cxiii. 5), but he is nowhere said to dwell only in the
heavens, as confined to them. It is the court of his majestical pres-
ence, but not the prison of his essence: for when we are told that
“the heaven is his throne,” we are told with the same breath that
the “earth is his footstool” (Isa. lxvi. 1). He dwells on high, in
regard of the excellency of his nature, but he is in all places, m re-
gard of the diffusion of his presence. The soul is essentially in all
parts of the bodv, but it doth not exert the same operations in all;
the more noble discoveries of it are in the head and heart In the
head where it exerciseth the chiefest senses for the enriching the un-
derstanding; in the heart, where it vitally resides, and communicates
life and motion to the rest of the body. It doth not understand
with the foot or toe, though.it be in all parts of the body it informs;
andso God may be said todwellin heaven, in regard of the more
excellent and majestic representations of himself, both to the crea-
tures that inhabit the place, as angels and blessed spirits, and also in
those marks of his greatness which he hath planted before, those spirit-
ual natures which have a nobler stam of God upon them, and those
excellent bodies, as sun and stars, which, as so many ta rs, light
IB to behold his glory_(Ps. xix. 1), and astonish the mindise of men
when they gaze upon them. It is his court, where he hath the most
solemn worship from his creatures, all his courtiers attending there
withapure love and glowing zeal. He reigns there in a special
manner, without any opposition to his government; it is, therefore,
called his “holy dwelling place” (2 Chron. iii. 27). The earth hath
not that title, since sin cast a stain and a mining curse upon it. The
earth is not his throne, because his government is opposed: but
heaven is none of Satau’s precinct, and the rule of God is uncontra-
iicted by the inhabitants of it. It is from thence also he hath
VOL l.'*‘l5

