886 cimmrocx on Tm: A'rrs1sU'rFs.
given the greatest discoveries of himself; thence he sends the angels
is xnewengers, his Son upon Redemption, his Spirit for sanctiiica
tion. From heaven his gifts drop down upon our heads, and his
upon our hearts (James   17). From thence the chiefcst
Elessings of earth descend. The motions of the heavens fattcn the
earth; and the heavenly bodies are but stewards to the earthly com~
forts for man by their influence. Heaven is the richest, vastest,
most steadfast, and majestic part of the visible creation. It isfthere
where he will at last manifest himself to his people in a full oon»
junction of grace and glory, and be forever open to his pleople in
uninterrupted eaipressions of goodness, and discoveries of is pres-
ence, as a rewar of their labor and service; and in these respects
it may peculiarly be called his throne. And this doth no more hin-
der his essential presence in all parts of the earth, than it doth his
gracious presence in all the hearts of his people. God is in heaven,
m regard of the manifestation of his glory; in hell, by the ex res-
sions of his justice; in the earth, by the discoveries of his wisd)om,
power, patience, and compassion; in his people, by the monuments
of his grace; and in all, in regard of his substance.
(2.) He is said also to dwellin the ark and temple. It is called
(Ps. xxvi. 8) “ the habitation of his house, and the lace where his
honor dwells ;” and to dwell in Jerusalem as in hislioly mountain,
“The mountain of the Lord of Hosts” (Zech. viii. 3), in regard of
publishing his oracles, answering their prayers, ma ` 'ni more of
is goodness to the Israelites, than to any other nation in t e world;
erecting his true worship among them, which was not settled in any
part of the world besides: and his worship is plrincipally intended
in that psalm. The ark is the place where his onor dwells. The
worship of God is called the loiyi of God; “They chan ed the
glory of God into an image made li e to corruptible man” atom. i.
23), i. e., they changed the worship of God into idolatry; and to that
also doth the place in Zechariah refer. Now, because he is said to
dwell in heaven, is he essentially only there? Is he not as essen-
tially in the temple and ark as he is in heaven, since there are as
high expressions of his habitation there as of his dwelling in
heaven? If he dwell only in heaven, how came he to dwell in the
temple? both are asserted in Scripture, one as much as the other.
if his dwelling in heaven did not hinder his dwelling in the ark,
't could as little hinder the presence of his essence on the earth. To
dwell in heaven, and in one art of the earth at the same time, is al]
one as to dwell in all parts oi) heaven, and all parts of earth. If he
were in heaven, and m the ark and temple, it_was the same essence
ni both, though not the same kind of manifestation of himselfl If
by his dwelling in heaven he meant his whole essence, whyis it not
also to be meant by his dwelling inthe ark? It was not, sure, part
of his essence that was in heaven, and part of his essence that was
cn earth; his essence would then be divided ; and can it be imagiu»
ed that he should be in heaven and the ark at the same time, and
not in the spaces between? Could his essence be split into frag-
ments, and a ga made in it, that two distant spaces s ould be filled
by him, and alllietween be empty of him, so that God’s being said

