_ on sons oimrrnnsnscs. 881
lo dwell in heaven, and in the temple, is so -far from impairingtho
truth of this doctrine, that it more confirms and evidences it.
2. Nor do the expressions of God’s coming to us, or departing
from us, impair this octrine of his omnipresence. God is said to
hide his face from his people (Ps. x. 1) ;, td be far from the wicked;
and the Gentiles are said to be afar 011, viz. from God (Prov. xv. 29;
Eph. ii. Ugeand upon the manifestation of Christ made near. These
must not understood of any distance or nearness of his essence,
for that is equally near to all persons and things; but of some other
special way and manifestation of his presence. Thus, God is said to
he in believers by love, as they are in him (1 John iv. 15) ; “ He that
abides in love, a ides in God, and God in him.” He that loves, is in
the thing bélzived; and when two love one another, they are in one
another. is in a ri hteous man by a special race and far from
the wicked in regard 0? such special works; and God is said to be
in a “place by a special manifestation, as when he was in the, bush
(Ex iii), or manifesting his glory upon Mount Sinai (Exod. xxiv.
16); “ The glory of the Lord abode about Mount Sinai.” God is said
to hide his face when he withdraws his comforting presence, disturbs
the repose of our hearts, flasheth terror into our consciences, when
he puts men under the smart of the cross; as though he had ordered
his mercy utterly to depart from them, or when he doth withdraw
his special assisting rovidence from us in our affairs ~ so he de art-
ed from Saul, when Ric withdrew his direction and protection From
him in the concerns of his government (1 Sam. xvi. 14) ; “The
Spiriiof the Lord departed from Saul,” i. e. the spirit of government.
God may be far from us in one respect, and near to us in another;
far from us in regard of comfort, yet near to us in regard of support,
when his essential presence continues the same: this is a necessary
conn}uent upon the infiniteness of God, the other is an act of the
willo God' so he was said to forsake Christ, in regard of his ob-
scuring his glory from his human nature, and infiiditing his wrath,
though he was near to him in regard of his grace and preserved him
from contracting any spot in his sufferings. We’ do not say the sun
n departed out of the heavens when it is bemisted; it remains in the
same part of the heavens, asses on its course, though its beams do
not reach ns bi reason of the bar between us and it. The soul is in
every part of e body, in regard of its substance, and constantly in
II, though it doth not act so sprightly and vigorously at one time as
at another in one and the same/member, and discover itself so sensi-
bly in its operations; so all the various effects of God towards the
rims oigilnen, are but divers operations of one and the same essence.
e is from us, or near to us as he is a judge or a benefactor.
When he comes to punish, it ncites not the approach of his essence,
but the stroke of his justice; when he comes to benent, it is not by
anew acaess of his essence, but an eiiiux of his grace: he departs
from us when he leaves us to the frowns of his justice; he comes to
us when he encirclisbpts ill: the arms of his mercy ; but he was eqgally
Enema with us in spensations, in regard of his essence. n
` ewise, God is said to come down (Gen. xi. 5, “And the Lord came;
down to see the e1ty"), when he doth some signal and wonderful

