888 CHABNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTE.
works which attract the minds of men to the acknowledgment of a
Suprem; Povi'er   Providence in the world, who judged God ab-
sent an care ess ore.
3. Nor is the essential presence of God with all creatures any dis-
paragement to him. Since it was no disparagement to create the
eaven and the earth, it is no dis aragement to him to fill them ; if
he were essentially resent with them when he created them, it is no
dishonor to him to he essentially present with them.to support them;
if it were his glory to create them by his essence, when they were
nothing, can it be his disgrace to be present by his essence, since
they are something, and something good; and very good in his eye
(Gen. i. 31)? Go saw every thing, and behold it was very good,
or mighty good; all ordered to deolare his goodness wisdom, power,
and to make him adorable to man, and therefore took complacency
in them. There is a harmon in all things, a combination in them
for those gorious ends for wliich God created them; and is it a dis-
ggace for od to be present with his own harmonious composition ?
it not a musician’s glory to touch with his fingers the treble, the
least and tenderest string, as well as the strongest and greatest bass?
Hath not everything some stam of God’s own being upon it, since
he eminently contains in himself the perfcctions of all his works?
Whatsoever hath being, hath a. footstep of God upon it, who is all
being; everything in the `earth is his footstool, having a mark of his
foot upon it; all eclare the being of God, because they had their
being lrom God; and will God account it an disparagement to him
to be present with that which confirms his heing, an the- glorious
perfcctions of his nature, to his intelligent creatures? The meanest
things are not without their virtues, which may boast God’s bein
the Creator of them, and rank them in the midst of his works 0?
wisdom as well as ower. Doth God debase himself to be resent
by his essence, with the things he hath made, more than he goth to
know them by his essence? Is not the least thing known by him Y
How? not by a faculty or act distinct from his ewence, but by his
essence itself How is anything disgraceihl to the essential presence
of God, that is not disgraceful to his knowled eby his essence ? Be-
sides, would God make anything that should be an invincible reason
to him to part with his own iniiniteness, by a. contraction of his own
essence into a lem compass than before? it was immense before, it
had no bolmds; and would God make a world that he would be
ashamed to be present with, and continue it to the diminution and
lessening of himself rather than annihilate it to avoid the  
ment? This were to impeach the wisdom of God, and cast a blem-
ish upon his infinite un erstanding, that he knows not the conse-
quences of his work, or is well contented to be impaired in the im-
mensity of his own essence by it. No man thinks it a dishonor to
light, a most excellent creature, to be present with a toad or serpent;
and though there be an iniinite disproportion between light, a crea-
ture, and the Father of lights, the Creator: yet God, beinga Spirit.,
knows how to be with bodies as if they were not bodies ;P and being
|Guund.

