on GOD’S oumrnssnscn. 389
jealous of his own honor, would not, could not do any thing that
might impair it.
4. Nor will it follow, That because God is essentially everywhere,
that everything is God. God is not everywhere by any conjunction,
composition or mixture with anything on earth. When light is in
every part of a. c stal globe, and encircles it close on eve side, do
they become one? No; the crystal remains what it is, anldlthe light
retainsitsown nature; God is notin us asa pa.rt of us, butasan
eliicient and preserving cause; it is not by his essential presence,
but his eiiicacious presence, that he brings any person into a like-
ness to his own nature; God is so in his essence with things, as to
be distinct from them, am a cause from the effect; as a Creator diifer-
ent from the creature, preserving their nature, not communicating
his own; his essence touches all, is in conjunction with none ; finite
and infinite cannot be joined; he is not far 50111 us, therefore near
tous; so near that we live and move in him (Acts xvii. 28). Nothing
is God because it moves in him, any more than a 'fish in the sea, is
the sea, or a part of the sea, because it moves in it. Doth a man that
holds a thing in the hollow of his hand, transform it by that action,
and make it like his hand 'Pa The soul and body are more straitly
united, than the essence of God is, by his presence, with an creature.
The soul is in the body as a form in matter, and from their union
doth arise a man; yet in this near conjunction, both body and soul
remain distinct; the soul is not the body, nor the body the soul;
they both have distinct natures and essences; the body can never
be changed into a soul, nor the soul into a body; no more can God
into the creature, or the creature into God. Fire is in heated iron in
every part of it, so that it seems to be nothing but fire; yet is not
'fire and iron the same thing. But such a kind of arguing against
God’s omnipresence, that if God were essentially present, everything
would be God, would exclude him from heaven as well as from earth.
By the same reason, since they acknowledge God essentially in heaven,
the heaven where he is should be changed into the nature of God;
and by arguing against his presence in earth, upon this ound they
run such an inconvenience, that they must own him to ble nowhere,
and that which is nowhere is nothing. Doth the earth become God,
because G-od is essentially there, any more than the heavens, where
Godis acknowledged by all to be essentially present? Again, if
where God is essentially, that must be God; then if they place God
in a point of the heavens, not only that ppint must be God, but all
the world; because if that point be God, ecause God is there, then
the point touched by that point must be God, and so consequently
as far as there are an points, touched by one another. We live and
move in God, so we live and move in t e air; we are no more God
by that, than we are mere air because we breathe in it, and it enters
into all the pores of our body ; nay, where there was a straiter union
of the divine nature to the human in our Saviour, et the nature of
both was distinct, and the humanity was not changeiirinto the divinity,
nor the divinity into the humanity.
5. Nor doth it follow, that because God is everywhere, therefore
Q Amyrald de Trinit. pp. 99, 100. ,

