890 cnannocx ON THE Armrsurns.
a creature may be worshipped without idolatry. Some ofthe heath ens
who acknowledged God’s omnipresence, abused it to the countenan-
cing idolatry; because God was resident in everyth% they thought
everything might be worship d_; and some have u it as an argu-
ment against this doctrine; th; best doctrines may by men’s corrup-
tion be drawn out into unreasonable and pernicious conclusions.
Have you not met with any, that from the doctrine of God’s free
mercy, and our Saviour’s satisfactory death, have drawn poison to
feed their lusts, and consume their souls `?-a poison composed by
their own corruption, and not offered b _those truths. The Apostle
intimates to us, that some did, or at least were ready to be more
lavish in sinning, because God was abundant in grace ;' “ Shall we
continue in sin, that grace may abound?" when he prevents an ob-
jection that he tlioug t might be made by some: but as to this case,
since tho h God be present in eve thing, yet everything retains
its natur<;1§istinct from the nature ofxlziod; therefore it is not to have
a worship due to the excellency of God. .As long as anything re-
mains a creature, it is only to have the respectirom us, which is due
to it in the rank of creatures When a prince is present with his
guard, or if he should go arm in arm with a peasant, is, therefore,
the veneration and honor due to the prince to be paid to the peasant,
or any of his guard? Would the resence of the rince excuse it,
or would it not rather aggravate itl) He acknowledged such a Per.
son e ual to me, by giving him my rights, even in my si ht. Though
God dwelt in the temple, would not the Israelites haveieen account-
ed guilty of idolatry had they worshipped the ima es of the cheru-
bims, or the ark, or the altar, as objects of worship, which were
erected only as means for his service? Is there not as much reason
to think God was as essentially present in the temple as in heaven,
since the same ex ressions are used of the one and the other ? The
sanctuary is called) the glorious high throne (Jer. xvii. 13); and he
is said to dwell between the cherubims (Ps. lxxx. 1), i. e. the two
cherubims that~were at the two ends of the mercy seat, appointed by
God as the two sides of his throne in the sanctuary (Ex . xxv. 18),
where he was to dwell (ver. 8), and meet, and commune, with his
people (ver. 22). Could this excuse Manasseh’s idolatry in bring-iq;
in a carved image into the house of God (1 Chron. xxxiii. 'Q ? hai
it been a good answer to the charge, God is present here, an there.
fore everything may be worshipped as God? If he be only essenti.
ally in heaven, would it not be idolatry to direct a worship to the
heavens, or any part of it as a due object, because of the presence of
God there? Though we look up to the heavens, where we pray
and worship God, yet heaven is not the object of worship; the S0111
abstracts God from the creature.
6. Nor is God detiled by bein resent with those creatures which
seem filthy to us. Nothing is tiltliy in the eye of God as his crea.
ture; he could never else have pronounced all good; whatsoever is
nlthy to us, yet, as it is a creature, it owes itself to the plower of God ~
his essence is no more deiled by being present wit it, than hjg
' Rpm. vi. l, 2, lb. “Shall we sin,bo¢zule we are not under the hw. but lung
grace

