~ ON cons ounrrnusnscn. 391
power by producing it: no creature is foul in itself; though it may
seem so to us. Doth not an infant lie in a womb of filthiness and rot-
teunes? yet is not the power of God present with it, in working it
curiously in the lower parts of the eart ? Are his eyes denled by see-
ing the substance when it is yet im erfect? or his hand defiled by writ-
ing eve member in his book (lg. cxxxix. 15, 16)? Have not the
vilest anrd most noisome things excellent medicinal virtues? How are
they endued with them? How are those qualities preserved in them?
by anything without God, or no ? Every artificer looks with pleasure
upon the work he hath wrought with art and skill. Can his essence be
defiled by being dpresent with them, any more than it was in giving them
such virtues, an reservin them in t em? God measures the heavens
and the earth with his hand; is his hand defiled by the evil influences
of the planets, or the corporeal impurities of the earth? Nothing can
be filthy in the eve of God but sin, since everything else owes its
being to him. What may appear deformed and unworthy to us, is
not so to the Creator; he sees beauty where we see deformity; finds
ggodness where we behold what is nauseous to us. All creatures
ing the effects of his power, ma be the objects of his presence.
Can any place be more foul than liell, if you take it either for the
hell of the damned, or for the ave where there is rottenness? yet
there he is (Ps. cxxxix. 8). Viglien Satan appeared before God, and
God spake with him (Job i. 7), could God contract any impurity by
being present where that filthy spirit Was, more impure than any
corporeal, noisome, and defiling thing can be? No; God is purity
to himself in the midst of noisomeness; a heaven to himself in the
midst of hell. Whoever heard of a sunbeam stained by shining
upon a quagmire, any more than sweetened by breaking into a per-
fumed room ?' Though the light shines upon pure and impure
things, yet it mixes not itself with either- of them; so though God
be present with devils and wicked men, yet without any mixture;
he is resent with their essence to sustain it and support it; not in
their gefection, wherein lies their defilement, and which is not a
physical, but a moral evil ; bodily filth can never touch an incor-
poreal substance. Spirits are not present with us in the same man-
ner that one body is resent with another; bodies can by a. touch
only, defile bodies. Irs the glory of_ an angel stained by being in a
coal-mine? or could the angel t at came into the lion’s den to de-
liver Daniel, be any more disturbed by the stench of the lace, than
he could be scratched by the paws, or torn by the teeth, oi? the beasts
$Dan. vi. 22)? Their spiritual nature secures them against any in-
ection when they are ministering spirits to persecute believers in
their nasty prisons (Acts xii. 7). ‘he soul is straitly united with
the body, but it is not made white or black by the whiteness or
blackness of its habitation. Is it infected by the corporeal impuri~
ties of the body, while it continually dwells in a sea of filthy ollu-
tion? If the body be cast into a common shore, is the soul dletiled
by it? Can a diseased body derive a contagion to the spirit that
snimates it? Is it not often the purer by grace, the more the body
i infected by nature? Hezekiah’s spirit was scarce ever more fer-
' Shelford on the Attributes, p. 170.

