892 cnnmocz ON rm: ATTRIBUTES. -
vent with God, than when the sore, which some think to be a. plague
sore, was upon him (Isa. xxxvni. 3). How can any corgoreal filth
impair the purity of the divine essence? It ma. as we be said,
that God is not present in battles and Bghts for his people (Joshua
xxiii. 10), because he would not be distmbed by the noise of cannons,
and clas ing of swords, as that he is not present in the world because
of the ill scents. Let us therefore conclude this with the expresssion
of a learned man of our own :‘ “To deny the omni resence of God,
because of ill scented places, is to measure God ratliier by the nicety
of sense, than by the sagacity of reason."
IV. Use. First, of information.
1. Christ hath a divine nature. As eternity and immutability,
two incommunicable properties of the divine nature, are ascribed to
Christ, so also is this of omnipresence or immensity (John iii. 13 :)
“No man hath ascended u to heaven, but he that came down from
heaven, even the Son of Mpan which is in heaven.” Not which was,
but which is. He comes from heaven by incarnation, and remains
in heaven by his divinity. He was, while he spake to Nicodemus,
locally on earth, in re§ard of his humanit ; but in heaven accord-
ing to his deity, as we I as upon earth in the union of his divine and
human nature. He descended upon earth, but he left not heaven;
he was in the world before he came in the flesh (John i. 10): “ He
was in the world, and the world was made by him.” He was in the
world, as the “light that enlightens every man that comes into the
world.” In the world as God, before he was in the world as man.
He was then in the world as man, while he discoursed with Nicode-
mus; yet so, that he was also in heaven as God. No creature but
is bounded in place, either circumscribed as body, or determined as
spirit to be in one space, so as not to be in another at the same time;
to leave a pgace where they were, and possess a place where they
were not. ut Christ is so on earth, that at the same time he is in
heaven; he is therefore innnite. 'l`o be in heaven and earth at the
same moment of time, is a property solely beloging to the Deity,
wherein no creature can be a partner with him. e was in the world
before he came to the world, and “the world was made by him”
(John i. 10). His coming was not as the coming of angels, that leave
heaven, and begin to be on earth, where the were not before ; but
such a presence as can be ascribed only to Gyod, who fills heaven and
earth. Again, if all things were made by him, then he was present
with all things which were made; for where there is a presence of
power, there is also a presence of essence, and therefore he is still
present; for the right and power of conservation follows the power
of creation. And, according to this divine nature, he romiseth his
presence with his church (Matt. xviii. 20): “There aml in the midst
of them :” and (Matt. xxviii. 20), “I am with you alway, even to
the end of the world,” i. e. by his divinity: for he had before told
them (Matt. xxvi. 11), that t ey were not to have him alway with
them, i. e. according to his humanity; but in his Divine nature he
is present with, an walks in the midst of, the golden candlesticks
If we understand it of a presence by his Spirit in the midst of
* Dr. More.

