on eoirs oirN11>nr:snNcr:. 398
the church, doth it invalidate his essential presence? No; he is
no less than the Spirit whom he sends; and therefore as little
confined as the Spirit is, who dwells in every believer: and this
may also be inferred from John x. 30° “My father and I are
one ;” not one by consent, though that be included, but one in
power: for he speaks not of their consent, but of their joint power
in keeping his people. Where there is L unity of essence, there is a
unity of presence.
2. Here is a confirmation of the s iritual nature of God. If he
were an infinite body, he could not fill heaven and earth, but with
the exclusion of all creatures. Two bodies cannot be in the same
space; they may be near one another, but not in any of the same
points together. A body bounded he hath not, for that would
estroy his immensity; he could not then nll heaven and earth,
because a body cannot be at one and the same time in two differ-
ent spaces; but God doth not fill heaven at one time, and the earth
at another, but both at the same time. Besides a limited body can-
not be said to fill the whole earth, but one particular space in the
earth at a time. A body may iill the earth with its virtue, as the
sun, but not with its substance. Nothing can be everywhere with a
oorporeal weight and mass; but God being innnite, is not tied to
any part of the world, but penetrates all, and equally acts by his
infinite power in all.
3. Here is an argument for providence. His presence is men-
tioned in the text, in order to his govemment of the affairs of the
world. Is he eve where, to be unconcerned with everything?
Before the world brig a being, God was present with himself; since
the world hath a bein , he is present with his creatures, to exercise
his wisdom in the orgerin , as he did his power in the production
of them. As the knowledge of God is not a bare contemplation
of a. thing, so his presence is not a bare inspection into a thing.
Were it an idle careless presence, it were a presence to no purpose
which cannot be imagined of God. Infinite power. goodness, and
wisdom, being everywhere present with his essence, are never
without their exercise. He never manifests any of his perfections,
but the manifestation is full of some indulgence and benefit to his
creatures. It cannot be su posed God should neglect those things,
wherewith he is constantly present in a way of efficiency and
operation. He is not everywhere without acting everywhere.
“Wherever his essence is, there is a power and virtue worthy of
God ever where dispensed.”“ He governs by his presence what he
made by his power; and is present as an agent' with all his works.
His power and essence are together, to preserve them while he
pleases, as his power and his essence were together, to create them
when he saw good to do it. Every creature hath a stamp of
God, and his presence is necessary to keep the impression stand-
ing upon the creature. As all things are his works, they are the
objects of his cares; and the wisdom he employed in framing
them will not suffer him to be careless of them. His presence
with them engageth him in honor not to be a negligent Governor.
- Oyx-iL

