894 CHASBNOCK ON 'run Arrmsmns.
His immensity its him for government ;A and where there is a it
ness, there is an. exercise of government, where there are objects
vfor the exercise of it. He is worthy to have the universal rule of
the world; 'he can be resent in all places of his empire; there is
nothing can be done gy any of his subjects, but in his sight. As
his eternity renders him King alway, so his irnmensity renders  
Kmg_ everywhere. If he were _only present .in heaven, it might
occasion a suspicion that he minded only the things of heaven,
and had no concern for things below that vast body; but if he be
present here, his presence hath a tendenc to the government of
those things with which he is present. Wye are all in him as fish
in the sea; and he bears all creatures in the womb of his provi-
dence, and the arms of his goodness. It is most certain that his
presence with his people is far from being an idle one;_for-when
epromises to be with them, he adds some special cordial, as, “I
wil be with thee, and bless thee” (Gen. xxvi. 8.) “I am with thee,
and I will strengthen thee” (Jer. xv. 20.) “I will help thee, I will
uphold thee” (Isa. xli. 10, 14.) Infinite goodness will never coun-
tenance a ne li ent resence. ~
4. 'l‘he orgnigcieniiie of God is inferred from hence. If God be
present everywhere, he must needs know what is done everywhere.
t is for this end he proclaims himself a God filling heaven and
earth, in the text, “Can an hide himself in secret places that I
shall not see him, saith the Iiiord? I have heard what the prophets
say, that prophesy lies in my name: if I fill heaven and earth, the
most secret thing cannot be hid from my sight.” An intelligent
being cannot be everywhere resent, and more intimate in every-
thing, than it can be in itsell; but he must know what is done
without, what is thought within. Nothing can be obscu.re to Him
who is in every part of the world, in every part of his creatures.
Not a thought can start upl but in his sight, who is present in the
souls and minds of everyt ing. How easy is it with im, to whose
essence the world is but a point, to know and observe everything
done in this world, as any of us can know what is done in one
point of place where we are present! If light were an understand-
ilrig being, it would behold and know everything done where it
` useth itself God is light (as light in a crystal glass all within
it, all without it), and is not ignorant of what is done within and
without; no ignorance can be fastened upon him who hath an
universal presence. Hence, by the way, we may take notice of
the wondertiil patience of God, who bears with so many provoca-
tions; not from a principal of ignorance, for he bears with sins
that ari committed near im in his sight, sins that he sees, and
cannot ut see.
5. Hence may be inferred the incomprehensibility of God. He
that fills heaven and earth cannot be contained in anythmg; he
ills the understandings of rnen, the understandin of angels, but
is comprehended bcy neither; it is a rashness to tgink to tind out
any bounds of Go ; there is no measuring of an innnite Being;
if it were to be measured it were not infinite; but because it in
infinite; it is not to be measured. God sits above the cherubims

