ON conis omrirnnssncs. 395
(Ezek. x. 1), above the fulness, above the brightness, not only of a
human, but a created understanding. Nothin is more present than
God, yet nothing -more hid; he is light, and yet obseurity;* his
perfections are visible, yet unsearchable; we know there is an
infinite God, but it surpasseth the compass of our minds; we know
there is no number so great, but another may be added to it; but
no man can put it in practice, without losinv himself in a maze of
Hgures. What is the reason we comprehend not many, nay, most
things in the world? partly ,from the excellency of the object,
and partly from the imlperfcction of our understandings. How
can we then comprehen God, who exceeds all, and is exceeded
by none; contains all, and is contained by none; is above our
understanding, as well as above our sense? as considered in him-
self infinite; as considered in comparison with our understandings,
inwmprehensible; who can, with his eye, measure the breadth,
length and depth of the sea, and at one cast, view every dimenf
sion of the heavens? God is greater, and we cannot know him
(Job xxxvi. 26)b;) he fills the understanding as he Hlls heaven and
earth; yet is a ve the understandin as he is above heaveri and
earth. He is known by faith, enjo 'ef b love, but comprehended
by no mind. God is not contained in tlilat one syllable, God; by
it we apprehend an excellent and unlimited nature; himself only
understands himself, and can unveil himself
6. How wonderful is God, and how nothing are creatures!
“Ascribe the greatness to our God” (Deut. xxxiii. 3); he is admi-
rable in the considerationof his power, in the extent of his under-
standing, and no less wonderful in the immensity of his essence:
that, as Austin saith, he is in the world, yet not confined to it; he
is out of the world, yet not debarred frorn_it; he is above the
world, yet not elevated by it; he is below the world, yet not
depreaed by it; he is above all, equalled by none; he is in all,
not because he needs them, but they stand in need of him; this,
as well as eternity, makes a vast disproportion between God and
the creature: the creature is bounded by a little space, and no
Space is so great as to bound the Creator. By this we may take a
prospect of our own nothingness: as in the consideration of God’s
oliness we are minded of our own impurity; and in the thoughts
of his wisdom have a view of our own folly ; and in the meditation
of his power, have a sense of our weakness; so his immensity
should make us, according to our own nature, appear little in our
own eyes. What little, little, little things_are we to God! less than
an atom in the beams of the sun; poor drops to a God that fills
heaven and earth, and yet dare we to strut against him, and dash
ourselves against a rock? If the consideration of ourselves in
comparison with others, be a t to uff us up, the consideration of
ourselves in comparison with Go£ will be suiiicient to pull us
down. If we consider him in the greatness of his essence, there is
but little more proportion between him and us, than between bein
and not being, than between a drop and the ocean. How should
we never think of God without a holy admiration of his greatness,
I Kp‘U¢¢6'l'7]§‘, Dionysius called God.

