/
396 cnsmrocx ON 'rim srrainvrss.
and a deep sense of our own littlenessl and as the angels cover
their faces before him, with what awe should creeping worms come
into his sight! and since God fills heaven and earth with his
presence, we should ‘fill heaven and earth with his glory; for this
end he created angels to praise him in heaven, and men to worship
him on earth, that the places he ills with his presence may be
filled with his praise: we should be swallowed up in admiration
'of the immensitly of God, as men are at the first sight of the sea,
when they beho d a mass of waters, without beholding the bounds
and immense depth of it.
7. How much is this attribute of God forgotten or contemned!
We pretend to believe him to   present everywhere, and yet many
live as if he were present nowhere. _
(1.) It is commonly forgotten, or not believed. All the extrava-
gpnces of men may be traced to the forgetfulness of this attribute as
t eir spring. The first speech Adam spake in aradise after his fall,
testined his unbelief of this §Gen. iii. 103; “l) heard thy voice in
the garden, and I hid myself ;’ his ear un erstood the voice of God,
but his mind did not conclude the presence of God; he thought the
trees could shelter him from Him whose eye was present in the mi-
nutest parts of the earth; he that thought after his sin, that he could
hide himself from the presence of his justice, thought before that he
could hide himself from the resence of his knowledge; and being
deceived in the one, he would try what would be the fruit of the
other. In both he forgets, if not denies, this attribute; either cor-
rupt notions of God, or a slight belief of what in general men ament
unto, gives birth to every sin. In all transgressions there is some-
thing of atheism; either denying)the beinguof God, or a dash upon
some perfection of Grid ;-a not elieving 's holiness to hate it, his
truth that threatens, is justice to punish it, and his resence to ob-
serve it. Though God be not afar off in his essence, he is “ afar off
in the apprehension of the sinner.”¥ There is no wicked man, but
if he be an atheist, he is a heretic; and to gratify his lust, will fanc
himself to he out of the presence of his Judge. His reason tellh
him, God is present with him, his lust presseth him to embrace the
season of sensual pleasure; he will forsake his reason, and rove a
heretic, that he may be an undisturbed sinner; and sins doubl) , both
in the error of his mind, and the vileness of his practice; he will
conceit God with those in Job, “veiled with thick clouds” (Job
xxii. 14), and not able to pierce into the lower world, as if his
presence and cares were confined to celestial things, and the earth
were too low a sphere for his essence to reach, at least with any
credit. It is forgotten by good men, when they fear too much the
designs of their enemies; “Fear not, for I am with thee” (Isa.
xliii. 5). If the presence of God be enough to strepfgutlhen against
fear,ithen the prevailing of fear issues from our forge ness of it.
(2.) This attribute of God’s omnipresence is for the most part con~
temned. When men will commit t at in the presence of God which
they would be afraid or ashamed'to do before the eye of man, men
do not practice that modesty before God as before men. He that
I Drexel. N ieett lib. ii. cap. 2. ~

