ON corrs OMNIPRESENCE. 397
would restrain his tongue out of fear of men’s e e, will not restrain
either tongue or hands out of fear of God’s. Vvihat is the languafre
nf this, but that God is not present with us, or his presence ought
to be of less regard with us, and influence upon us, than that of a
creatine 71 Ask the thief wh he dares to steal? will he not answer,
“No eye sees him ?” Ask the adulterer why he strips himself of
his chastity, and invades the rights of another? will he not answer
(Job xxiv. 15), “No eye sees me ?” He disguiseth himself to be un-
seen by man, but slights the all-seeing eye of God. If only a man
Know them, they are in terror of the shadow of death; they are
planet-struck, but stand unshaken at the presence of God (Job
xxiv. 17). Is not this to account God as limited as man-as ignor-
ant, as absenting, as if God were something less than those things
which restrain us? ’Tis a debasing God below a creature. If we
canforbear sin from an awe of the presence of man, to whom we
are equal in regard of nature, or from the presence of a very mean
man, to whom we are superior in regard of condition, and not forbcar
it because we are within the ken o God, we respect him not only
as our inferior, but inferior to the meanest man or child of his crea-
tion, in whose sight we would not commit the like action: it is to
represent him as a sleepy, negligent, or careless God; as though any-
thing might be concealed from him, before whom the least fibres of
the heart are anatomiscd and open, who sees as plainly midnight as
noon-day sins (Heb. iv. 13). Now this is a high aggravation of sin :
to break a king’s laws, in his sivht, is more bold than to violate them
behind his back; as it was lIaman’s offence when he la upon
Esthefs bed, to force the queen before the king’s face. The least in-
iquity receives a high tincture from this; and no sin can be little
that 18 an affront in the face of God, and casting the filth of the crea-
ture before the eyes of his holiness: as if a wife should commit
adultery before her husba.nd’s face, or a slave dishonor his master,
and disobey his commands in his presence. And hath it not often
been thus with us? have we not been disloyal to God in his sight,
before his eyes, those pure eyes that cannot behold iniquity without
anger and grief? (Isa. lxv. 12), “Ye did evil before m eyes.”
Nathan ehargeth this home upon David $2 Sam. xii. 9), “ Thou hast
'lezpised the commandment of the Lor ,to do evil in his sight ;”
an David, in his repentance, reflects u on himself for it (Ps. li. 4);
“  thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy
sight.” I observed not thy presence, I ne lectcd thee while th _y
tye was upon me. And this consideration iould sting our hearts
in all our confessions of our crimes. Men will be afraid of the pres-
ence of others, whatsoever they think in their heart. How un-
worthily do we deal with God, in not giving him so much as an
eyeservice, which we do man I
8. How terrible should the thoughts of this attribute be to sinners!
How foolish is it, to imagine any hiding-place from the incompre-
hensible Goxl, who fills and contains all things, and is present in
Uvcry point of the worldl° When men have shut the door, and
U Drexel, Nicet. lib. ii. cap. 10.
° Quo fugis Eneelmlc qmm eunqne uooeueris oru, cub Jove camper erin.

