898 cnannocx ON rm: arrnmcrrns.
made all darkness within, to meditate or commita crime, they can-
not in the most intricate recesses be sheltered from the presence of
God. If they could separate themselves from their own shadows,
they could not avoid his company, or be obscured from his sight.”
Hypocrites cannot disguise then' sentiments hom him; he is in the
most secret nook of their hearts. No thought is hid, no lust is secret,
but the eye of God beholds this, and that, and the other. He is
present with our heart when we imagine, with our hands when we
act. We may exclude the sun from peeping into our solitudes, but
not the eyes of God from beholding our actions. “The eyes of the
Lord are in every lace, beholding the evil and good” (Prov. xv. 3).
He lies in the depths of our souls, and sees afar off our designs be-
fore we have conceived them. He is in the greatest darkness, as
well as the clearest light; in the closest thought of the mind, as well
as the o nest expressions. Nothing can be hid from him, no, not
in the dhhkest cells or thickest walls. “He compasseth our path
wherever we are (Ps. cxxxix. 3), and “is acquainted with all our
ways.” He is as much present with wicked men to observe their
sins, as he is to detest them. Where he is present in his essence, he
is present in his attributes: his holiness to hate, and his justice to
punish, if he ‘please to speak the word. It is strange men should
not be mind ul of this, when their very sins themselves might put
them in mind of his presence. Whence hast thou the power to act?
who preserves thy being, whereby thou art capable of~ committing
that evil? Is it not his essentia presence that sustains us, and his
arm that supports us? and where can any man fly from his presence?
Not the vast regions of heaven could shelter a sinning angel from
his e e: how was Adam ferreted out of his hiding-places in para-
disely Nor can we find the depths of the sea a suiiicient covering
'to us. If we were with Jonah, closeted up in the belly of a whale;
if we had the “wings of the morning,” as quick a motion as the
light at the dawning of the day, that doth in an instant surprise and
overpower the regions of darkness, and could pines to the utmost
parts of the earth or hell, there we should find im, there his eye
would be upon us, there would his hand lay hold of us, and lead us
as a conqueror triumphinfg over a captive (Ps. cxxxix. 8-10). Nay,
if we could leap' out o the compass of heaven and earth, we
should End as little reserves from him: he is without the world in
those infinite spaces which the mind of man can imagine. In regard
of his immensrty, nothing in being can be distant from him, where
soever it is.
Second, Use is for comfort. That God is present everywhere, is as
much a comfort to a good man, as it is ri) terror to a wicked one,
He is ever where for his eo le, not onl y a necessary rfection
of his natiiire, but an immgnsld diffusion Jhf his goodness. Pelle is in
all creatures as their preserver: in the damned, as their terror; in
his people, as their protector. He fills hell with his severity, heaven
with his glory, his people with his grace. He is with his people as
light in darkness, a fountain in a garden, as manna in the ark. God
is in the world as a spring of preservation; in the church as his
* Pl. axxix. 12. “The darkness and light are both alike to him’

