ON GOD‘S OMNIPREBENCE
cabinet, his spring of grace and consolation. ‘A man is pl
sometimes in is field, but more delightfully in his garden. A vine
yard, as it hath more of cost, so more of care, and a watchful pres
ence of the owner (Isa. xxvii. 3); “I, the Lord, do keep it,” viz.
his vineyard _; “I will water it every moment, lest an; hurt it; I
will keep it mght and day.” As there is a presence of essence, which
is natural, so there is a presence of grace, which is federal: a res-
ence by covenant; “I will not leave thee, I will be with thlee.”
This latter depends upon the former; for, take away the immensity
of God, and you leave no foundation for his universal gracious pres-
ence with his people in all their emergencies, in all their hearts
And, therefore, where he is present in his essence, he cannot be ab
sent in his grace, &om them that fear him. It is from his filling
heaven and earth he plroves his knowledge of the designs of the false
prophets; and from t e same topic may as well be inferred the eni-
ployment of his power and grace for his people.
1. The omnipresence of God is a comfort in all violent temptations.
No tier dart can be so present with us, as God is present both with
that and the marksman. The most raging devils cannot be so near us,
as God is to us and them. He is present with his peo le' to relieve
them, and present with the devil to manage him to his own holy
plgposes: so he was with Job, defeating his enemies, and bringin
' triumphantly out of those pressinlg trials. This presence is suclé
a terror, that whatsoever the devil ca despoil us of, he must leave
this untouched. He might scratch the apostle with a thorn (2 Cor.
  7, 22, but he could not rifle him of the presence of divine grace
which ‘od promised him. He must prevail so far as to make God
cease to be God, before he can make him to be distant from us; and
while this cannot be, the devils and men can no more hinder the
emanations of God to the soul, than a child can cut off the\rays of
the sun from embellisliing the earth. It is no mean support for a
good man, at any time, buffeted by a messenger of Satan, to think
od stands near him, and behold how ill he is used. It would be a
satisfaction to a king’s favorite, in the midst of the violence some
enemies might use to him u on a surprise, to understand that the
king who loves him stands behind a curtain, and through a hole sees
the injuries he suffers: and were the devil as considering as he is
malicious, he could not but be in great fear at God’s being in the
generation of the righteous, as his serpentine seed is (Prov. iii. 6);
“Tlliey vszere in great fear, for God is in the generation of the
rig teous.’
2. The omnipresence of God is a comfort in sharp aiilictions. Good
men have a comfort in this presence in their nasty prisons, oppressinv
tribunals; in the overilowin Waters or scorching flames he is still
with them (Isa. xljii. 2); and many times by his presence keeps the
bush from consuming, when it seems to be all in a iiame. In afflic-
fi0l1S God shows himself most present, when friends are most absent:
“When my father and mother forsake me, then the Lord shall take
me up” (Ps. xxvii. 10), then God will stoo and gather me into his
protection ; or, (Heh) “shall gpther me,” alluding to those tribes that
were to bring up the rear in t e Israelites’ march, to take care that

