400 CHABNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
none were left behind, and exposed to famine or wild beasts, by rea-
son of some disease that djsenabled them to keep ace with their
brethren. He that is the sanctuary of his people in all calamities, is
more present with them to support them, than their adversaries can
be present with them to amict them (Psal. xlvi. 2), a present help in
the time of trouble; He is present with all things for this end;
though his presence be a necessary presence in regard of the immen-
sity of his nature, yet the end of t is presence in re rd that it is for
the good of his people, is a voluntary presence. Itiis for the good
of man he is present m the lower world, and princi all for the good
of his people, tbr whose sake he keeps up the worldP(2 éhron. xvi. 9).
“His eyes run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to show him
self strong in the behalf of them whose heart`is perfect towards him."
If he doth not deliver good men from aiilictions, he will be so present
as tm manage them in them, as that his glory shall issue from them,
and their grace be brightened by them! What a man was Paul
when he was lodged in a rison, or dragged to the 0011118 of judica~
ture, when he was torn with rods, or laden with chains! then did he
show the greatest miracles, made the judge tremble u n the bench,
and brake the heart, though not the prison, of the jailgr; so power~
ful is the presence of God in 'the pressures of his people. This res-
ence outweighs all other comforts, and is more valuable to a Cllris-
tian than barns of corn, or cellars of wine can be to a covetous man
(Ps. iv. 7): it was this presence was David’s cordial in the mutinying
of his so diers (1 Sam. xxx. 6). What a comfort is this in exile, or
a forced desertion of our habitations! Good men may be banished
from their countr , but never from the presence of their Protector;
ye cannot say ofy any corner of the earth, or of any dungeon in a
prison, God is not here; if you were cast out of your country a
thousand miles oti, you are not out of God’s precinct; his arm is
there to cherish the good, as well as to drag out the wicked; it is
the same God, the same presence in every country, as well as the
same sun, moon, and stars; and were not God everywhere, yet
he could not be meaner than his creatine the sun in the firmament,
which visits every part of the habitable world in twenty~four hours.
3. The omnipresence of God is a comfort in all duties of worship.
He is present to observe, and resent to accept our petitions, and
answer our suits. Good men gave not only the essential presence,
which is common to all, but his gracious presence; not only the
presence that flows from his nature, but that which flows from his
promise; his essential presence makes no diiference between this and
that man in regard of spirituals, without this in conjunction with it;
his nature is the cause of the resence of his essence; his will engaged
by his truth is the cause of the presence of his grace. He promised
to meet the Israelites in the place where he should set his name, and
in all places Where he doth record it (Exod. xx. 4). “In all places
where I record my name, I will come unto thee, and I will blex
thee ;" in every place where I shall manifest the special pr. ss: re of
my divinity. In all places, hands may be lifted up, wit out doubt-
ing of his ability to hear; he dwells in the contrite hearts, wherever
° Chrysoswme. »

