ON sons omm>aEsnNcs. 401
rt is most in the exercise of contrition; which is usually in times of
Ecial worship (Isa. lvii. 15), and that to revive and refresh them.
bitation notes a sppcial presence, though he dwell in the highest
heavens in the spar lings of his glory, e dwells also in the lowest
hearts in the_beams of his grace; as none can expel him from his
dwelling in heaven, so none can reject him from his residence in the
heart. The tabernacle had his peculiar presence fixed to it (Levit.
xxvi. 11); his soul should not abhor them, as they are washed by
Christ, though they are loathsome by sin: in a greater dispensation
there cannot be a less presence, since the church under the New
Testament is called the temple of the Lord, wherein he will both
dwell and walk S2 Cor. vi. 6); or, I will indwell in them; as if he
should say, I wil dwell in and in them; I will dwell in them by
grace, and walk in them by exciting their graces; he will be more
intimate with them than their own souls, and converse with`them as
the living God, i. e. as a God that hath life in himself, and life to
convey to them in their converse with him; and show his spiritual
glory among them in a greater measure than in the temple, since
that was but a heap of stones, and the figure ofthe Christian church
the mystical body of his Son. His presence is not less in the sub-
stance than it was in the shadow; this presence of God in his ordi-
nances, is the glory of a church, as the presence of a king is the glo
cf a court, the de ence of it, too, as a wall of fire (Zech. ii. 5); alluldi
ingto the fire travellers in a wilderness made to fright away wild
beasts. It is not the meanness of the place of worship can exclude
him; the second temple was not so magnificent as the first of Solo-
mon’s erecting, and the Jews seemed to despond of so glorious a
presence of God in the second, as they had in the first, because they
thought it notso od for the entertainment of Him that inhabits
eternity ; but Gofdomforts them against this conceit again and again
(Hag. ii. 3, ft): “ be strong, be strong, be strong, I am with you ;" the
meannex o the place shall not hinder the grandeur of my presence,
no matter what the room is, so it be the presence-chamber of the
king, wherein he will favor our suits; he can everywhere slide into
our souls with a perpetual sweetness, since he is everywhere, and so,
intimate with ever one that fears him. If we should see God on
earth in his amiablseness, as Moses did, should we not be encouraged
by his presence, to resent our requests to him, to echo out our
praises of him? and have we not as great a ground now to do it,
since he is as really present with us, as if he were visible to us? he
is in the same room with us, as near to us as our souls to our bodies,
not a word but he hears, not a motion but he sees, not a breath but
he perceives; he is through all, he is in all.
4. The omnipresence of God is a comfort in all special services.
God never puts any upon a hard task, but he makes promises to en-
°0\1l'3»g8 them and assist them, and the matter of the romise is that
of his presence; so he did assure the prophets of ol)d when he set
them difficult tasks, and strengthened Moses against the face of Pha-
raoh, by assuring him “ he would be with his mouth” (Exod. iv. l2?;
ind when Christ put his apostles upon a contest with the who e
world, to preach a gospel that would be foolishness to the G-reeks,
vol.. 1.-26

