402 ciuanocx ON 'mn A'1'I‘RIBU'1‘ES.
and a stumbling block to the Jews, he gives them a cordial only
composed of his presence (Matt. xxviii. 20), I will be with you; it 18
this presence scatters by its light the darkness of our spirits; itis
this that is the cause of what is done for his glo in the world; it is
this that miiigles itself with all that is done iorrliiis honor; it is this
from whence springs all the assistance of his creatures, marked out
for special purposes.
5. This presence is not without the special presence of all his
attributes. Where his essence is, his perfections are, because they
are one with his essence; ea, they are his essence, though they
have their several degrees oiymanifestation. As in the covenant, he
makes over himself, not a part of himself, but his whole deity; so
in promising of his presence, he means not a part of it, but the
whole, the presence of all the excellencies of his nature to be mani-
fested for our good. It is not a piece of God is here and another
parcel there, but God in his whole essence and perfections; in his
wisdom to guide us, his power to protect and support us, his mercy
to pity us, his fulness to refresh us, and his goo ness to relieve us:
he is ready to sparkle out in this or that perfection, as the necessities
of his people require, and his own wisdom directs for his own honor;
so that being not far from us in an excellency of his nature, we can
quickly have recourse to him upon any emergency; so that if we
are miserable, we have the presence of his goo ness; if we want di-
rection, we have the presence of his wisdom; if we are weak, we
have the resence of his power; and should we not rejoice in it, as
pnmag _plotli in the presence of a powerful, wealthy, and compassionate
en
Third, I/fee. Of Exhortation.
1. Let us be much in the actual thoughts of this truth. How
should we enrich our understandings with the knowledge of the ex
cellency of God, whereof this is none of the least; nor hath less of
honey in its bowels, though it be more terrible to the wicked than
the presence of a lion; it is this that makes all other excellencies of
the divine nature sweet. What would grace, wisdom, wer, sig-
nify at a distance from us? Let us frame in our minmgo a strong
idea of it; it is this makes so great a difference between the actions
of one man and another; one maintains actual thoughts of it, another
doth not: though all believe it as a perfection pertaining to the inti-
niteness of his essence. David, or rather a greater than David, had
God always betbre him ; there was no time, no occasion, wherein he
did not stir up some lively thoughts of him (Ps. xvi. 8). Let us have
right notions of it; imagine not God as a great King, sitting only
in his majesty in heaven; acting all by his servants and ministers
This, saith one,°i is a childish an unworthy conceit of God, and may
in time bring such a conceiver by degees to deniy his providenve;
the denial of this perfection is an axe at the root o religion; if it be
not deeply imprinted in the mind, personal religion grows faint and
feeble. \Vho would fear that God that is not imagined to be a wit-
ness of his actions? Who would worship a God at a distance both
from the worship and the worshipper ?° Let us believe this truth,
4 Musculns. ° Drexel.

