ON cows OMINIPRESENCE. 403
but not with an idle faith, as if we did not believe it. Let us know,
that as wheresoever the fish moves, it is in the water; wheresoever the
bird moves, it is in the air; so wheresoever we move, we are in God.
As there is not a. moment but we are under his mere , so there is
not a moment that we are out of his presence. Let us therefore look
upon nothing, without thinking who stands by, without reflecting
upon him in whom it lives, moves and hath its being. When you
viewa man, you fix your eyes upon his body, but our mind u on that
invisible part that acts every member by life and' motion, ang makes
them fit for your converse. Let us not bound our thoughts to the
creatures we see, but pierce through the creature to that boundless
God we do not see: we have continual remembrances of his pres-
ence; the light, whereby we see, and the air, whereby we live, give
us perpetual notices of it, and some weak resemblance; why should
we forget it? yea, what a shame is our unmindfulness of it, when
every cast of our eye, every motion of our lungs, jogs us to remember
it? Light is in every part ofthe air, in every part of the world, et
not mixed with any, both remain entire in their own substance. Let
us not be worse than some of the heathens, who pressed this notion
upon themselves for the Igpkiriting their actions with virtue, that all
p aces were full of God. is was the means Basil used to prescribe,
upon a question asked him, How shall we do to be serious? mind
God(£sxpresence. How shall we avoid distractions in service? think
og' 's presencg. d How shall we resist temptation? oppose to them
t e presence of o .f
(1.) This will be a shield against all tem tations. God is present,
isenough to blunt the wea ns of hell; this will secure us from a
readv compliance with any hgse and vile attractives, and curb that
headistrong principle in our nature, that would join hands with them;
the thoughts of this would, like the powerful presence of God with
the Israelites, take off the wheels from the chariots of our sensitive
appetites, and make them perhaps move slower, at least, towards a
temptation. How did Peter fling off the temptation which had
worsted him, upon a look from Christi The actuated faith of this
would stifle the darts of Satan, and fire us with an anger against his
solicitations, as strong as the fire that inflames the darts. Moses’
sight of Him that was invisible, strengthened him against the costly
pleasures and luxuries of a prince’s court (Heb. xi. 27). We are
utterly senseless of a Deity, if we are not moved with this item from
our consciences, God is resent. Had our Hrst parents actually con-
sidered the nearness of Gldd to them, when they were tempted to eat of
the forbidden liuit, they had not probably been so easily overcome by
the temptation. What soldier would be so base as to revolt under the
eye of atender and obligin general? or what man so negligent of him-
self, as to rob a house in the sight of a judge? Let us consider that
God is as near to observe us, as the devil to solicit us, yea, nearer;
the devil stands by us, but God is in us; we may have a thought
the devil knows not, but not a thought but God is actually present
with, as our souls are with the thoughts the think; nor can any crea-
ture attract our heart, if our minds were fixed on that invisible presence
' Omnia diis nlena.

