404 cnsnuocx on rm: Arrsrsnras.
that contributes to that excellency, and sustains it, and considered
that no creature could be so present with us as the Creator is.
(2.) It will be a spur -to holy actions. What -man ,would do an
unworthy action, or speak an unhandsome word, in the presence of
his prince? The eye of the general inflames the spirit of a soldier
Why did David keep God’s testimonies (Ps. cxix. 168)? because he
considered that all his ways were before him; because he was per-
suaded his ways were present with God; God’s precepts should be
present with him. The same was the cause of Job’s integrity (Job
xxxi. 4); “Doth he not see my ways ?” To have God in our eye is
the way to be sincere (Gen. xvii. 1); “walk before me” as in my
sight, “and be thou perfect.” Communion with God consists chiefly
in an ordering our ways as in the resence of him that is invisible.
This would make us spiritual, raised and watchful in all our pamions,
if we considered that God is present with us in our shops, in our
chambers, in our walks, and in our meetings, as present with us as
with the angels in heaven; who, though they have a presence of
glory above us, yet have not a greater measure of his essential pres-
ence than we have. What an awe had Jacob upon him when he
considered God was resent in Bethel (Gen. xxviii. 16, 17)l If God
should appear visibly to us when we were alone, should we not be
reverend and serious before him? God is everywhere about us, he
doth encompass us with his presence. Should not God’s seeing us
have the same influence upon us as our seeing God? He is not more
essentially present if' he should so manifest himself to us, than when
he doth not. Who would appear besmeared in the presence of a
great person? or not be ashamed to be found in his chamber in a
nasty posture by some visitant? Would not a man blush to be catched
about some mean action, though it were not an immoral crime ? If
this truth were impressed upon our spirits, we should more blush to
have our souls daubed with some loathsome lust; swarms of sin, like
Egyptian lice and frogs, creeping about our heart in his sight. If
the most sensual man be ashamed to do a dishonest action in the
sight of a grave and holy man, one of great reputation for wisdom
and integrit ,how much more should we lift up OIIISCIVBB in the
ways of Gocli who is infinite and immense, is everywhere, and in1i~
nitely superior to man, and more to be regarded! We could not
seriously think of his resence but there would pass some intercourse
between us; we shoulid be putting up some petition upon the sense
of our indigence, or sending up our praises to him upon the sense
of his bounty. The actual thoughts of the presence of God is the
life and spirit of all religion; we could not have sluggish s irits and
a, careless watch if we considered that his eye is upon us aliithe day.
(3.) It will quell distractions in worship. _ The actual thoughts of
this would establish our thou hts, and ull them back when they
begin to rove: the mind could not bolidly give God the slip if it
had lively thoughts of it; the consideration of this would blow OE
all the froth that lies on the top of our spirits. An eye, taken up
with the presence of one object, is not at leisure to be filled wit
another: e that looks intently u on the sun, shall have nothing for
a while but the sun in his eye. Sppose to every intruding thought

