ON GOD’8 OMNIPRESENCE. 405
the ideahof the Divine vcermnipresence, and put it to silence by the
awe of is Majest _ hen the master is resent, scholars mind
their books, keep their places, and run not oiier the forms to play
with one another; the master’s eye keeps an idle servantto his work.
that otherwise would beigazing at every straw, and prating to every
pamenger. How soon would the remembrance of this dash all ex-
travagant fancies out of countenance, just as the news of the ap-
proach of a prince would make the courtiers bustle up themselves,
uddle up their vain sports, and repare themselves tor a reverent
behavior in his sight l We should) not dare to give God a piece of our
heart when we a prehended him present with the whole: we should
not daretomock one that we knew were more inwards with us
thani, we are with ourselves, and that beheld every motion of our
min as well as action of our bod .
f2éoI(ft ul; endeavor for the mor; specialdand influential (presence
o tthe essential esence of Go be the un of our
awe, and his gracious iniludiirtial presence the objectggf our desire.
}'l'he heathen otigought themselves secure if they hald their little petty
ousehold with them in their joume s: suc seem to be the
images Itacliel stole from her father (Gen. jirxxi. 19) to company her
travel with their blessings: she might not at that time have cast off
all respect to those idols, in the acknowledgment of which she had
been educated from her infanc ; and they seem to be kept by her
till God called Jacob to Bethel? after the rape of Dinah (Gen. xxxv
gkwhgn Jacob called for the strénge godsilanddhfd Lhem under the
he acious resence of o we s oul oo after, in our
actions, as t§~avellers,pthat have a charge of money or jewels, desire
to keep themselves in compan that ma protect them from highway-
men that would riile them. l§nce we have the concerns of the eter-
nal ha piness of our souls upon our hands, we should endeavor to
have (i)od’s merciful and powerful presence with us in all our ways
(Ps. xiv. 52; “In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct
thy paths :’ acknowledge him before any action, by imploring; ae-
knowledge him afberil by renderiigg hérrpte the gloilly; acknowledge his
resence before wors i ,in wors 1 , r wors i : it is t is res-
gnce makes a kind of heaven upori) earth; causeilh affliction topput
otf the nature of misery. How much will the presence of the sun
outshine the stars of lesser comforts, and fully answer the want of
them! The ark of God goin before us, can only make all things
successful. It was this led the Israelites over Jordan, and settled
them in Canaan. Without this we signify nothing: though we
llize without this, we cannothbe distinguished firever from devils;
' essential resence the ave; and ` we ave no more, we
shall be no iiiatter. It isythe enlivening fructifying presence of
the sun that revives the languishing earth; and this only can re-
Eafir our mined soul. Let it be, therefore, our desire, that as he
ls heaven and earth by his essence, he may fill our understand-
lllgS and wills by his grace, that we may have another kind of
presence with us than animals have in their brutish state, or devils
in their chains: his essential (presence maintains our beings, but
his gracious prmnce confers an continues a happiness.

