DISCOURSE VIII.
ON GOD’S KNOWLEDGE.
Pa' cxlvii. 5.-Great is our Lord, and of great power; his understanding || infinite.
IT is uncertain who was the author of this psalm, and when it
was penned; some think after the return from the Babylonish cap
tivity. It is a psalm of praise, and is made up of matter of praise
from the beginning to the end: God’s benefits to the church,
his providence over his creatures, and the essential excellency of
his nature.
The psalmist doubles his exhortation to praise God (ver. 1),
“Praise ye the Lord, sing praise to our God;” to praise him hom
his dominion as “ Lord,’ from his grace and merc as “our God ;"
from the excellency of the duty itself, “it is goofl; it is comelyz"
some read it comely, some lovely, or desirable, from the various
derivations of the word. Nothing doth so much delight a gracious
soul, as an opportunity of celebrating the perfections and goodness
of the Creator. The highest duties a creatine can render to the
Creator are leasant and delightful in themselves; “it is comely."
Praise is a driity that affects the Whole soul. The praise,of God is a
decent thing; the excellency of God’s nature deserves it, and the
benefits of God’s ace requires it. It is comely when done as it
ought to be, with gh-e heart as well as with the voice; a sinner sings
ill, though his voice be good; the soul in it.is to be elevated above
earthly things. The Hrst matter of   is God’s erectin and pre-
servin his church (ver. 2): “The rd doth build up -lirusalem,
he gathers together the outcasts of Israel.” The walls of demolished
Jerusalem are now re-edified; God hath brought back the ca tivity
of Jacob, and reduced his people from their Babylonish exilia, and
those that were dispersed into strange regions, he hath restored to
their habitations. Or, it may be prophetic of the calling of the Gen-
tiles, and the gathering the outcasts of the spiritual Israel, that were
before as without God in the world, and strangers to the covenant of
promise. Let God be praised, but especially for building up his
church, and gathering t e Gentiles, before counted as outcasts (Isa.
xi. 12); he gathers them in this world to the faith, and hereafter
to lor .
gbayl. From the two Hrst verses, observe: 1. ,All people are un-
der God’s care; but he has a particular regard to his church. This
isthe signet on his hand, as a bracelet upon his arm; this is his
garden which he delights to dress; if he prunes it, it is to purge it;

