ON con‘s KNOWLEDGE. 407
\
if he digs about his vine, and wounds the branches, it is to make it
beautiful with new clusters, and restore it to a fruitful vigor. 2. All
great deliverances are to be ascribed to God, as the principal Author,
whosoever are the instruments. The Lord doth build up Jerusalem,
he gathers together the outcasts of Israel. This great deliverance
from Babylon is not to be ascribed to Cyrus or Darius, or the rest of
our favorers; it is the Lord that doth it; we had his promise (br it,
we have now his performance. Let us not ascribe that which is the
effect of his truth., only to the good will of men; it is God’s act, not
by might, nor by ower, nor b weapons of war, or strength of
horses, but bythe §)pirit of the Iird. He sent ro hcts to comfort
us while we were exiles; and now he hath stretclhed) out his own arm
to work our deliverance according to his word; blind man looks so
much upon instruments, that he hardly takes notice of God, either
in atllictions or mercies, and this is the cause that robs God of so
much pra er and raise in the world. (ver. 3.) “ He heals the
broken in heart, andp binds up their wounds.” He hath now restored
those who had no hope but in his word; he hath dealt with them
as a tender and skilful chirurgeon; he hath applied his curing plas-
ters, and dropped in his sovereign balsams; he hath now furnished
our fainting earts with refreshing cordials, and comforted our
wounds with strengthening ligatures. How gracious is God, that re-
stores liberty to the captives, and righteousness to the penitentl
Man’s misery is the httest opportunity for God to make his merc
illustrious in itself, and most welcome to the patient. He Sroceedys
(ver. 4), wonder not that God calls together the outcasts, an singles
them out from every corner for a return; why can he not do this, as
well as tell the number of the stars, and call them all by their names?
There are none of his peo le so despicable in the eye of man, but
they are known and regarded by God; though they are clouded in
the world, yet they are the stars of the world; and shall God num-
ber the inanimate stars in the heavens, and make no account of his
living stars on the earth? No, wherever they are dispersed, he will
not forget them ; however they are alllicte , he wi I not despise
them; the stars are so numerous, that they are innumerable by man;
some are visible and known by men; others lie more hid and un-
discovered in a confused light, as those in the milky way; man can-
not see one of them distinctly. God knows all his people. As he
can do what is above the power of man to perform, so he under-
stands what is above the skill of man to discover; shall man
measure God by his seantiness? Proud man must not equal him-
Belfto God, nor cut God as short as his own line. He tells the num-
ber of the stars, and calls them all by their names. He hath them all
ID his list, as generals the names of their soldiers in their muster-roll,
for they are his host, which he marshals in the heavens, as in Isaiah
Xl.26, where you have the like ex ression; he knows them more
distinctly than man can know anything, and so distinctly, as to call
“them all by their names.” He knows their names, that is, their
natural offices, influences the different degrees of heat and light,
their order and motion; and all of them, the least glimmering star,
ls well as the most glaring planet: this, man cannot do; “Tell the

