408 cnannocx ON rm: Arrnrnnrns.
stars if thou be able to number them" (Gen. xv. 5), saith God tu
Abraham, whom Josephus represents as a great astronomer: “ Yea,
they cannot be numbered” (Jer.   22); and the uncertaint of
the opinions of men, evidenceth their ignorance of their number;
some reckoning 1022; others 1025; others 1098; others 7000, be-
side those that by reason of their mixture of light with one another,
cannot be distinctly discerned, and others perhaps so high, as
not to be reached by the eye of man. To impose names on things,
and names according to their natures, is both an argument of power
and dominion, and of wisdom and understanding: from the impod
sition of names upon the creatures by Adam, the knowledge of
Adam is generally concluded; and it was also a fruit of that domin-
ion God allowed him over the creatures. Now he that numbers
and names the stars that seem to lie confused among one another,
as well as those that appear to us in an unclouded night, may
well be supposed accurately to know his people, though lurking
in secret caverns, and know those that are Ht to be instruments
of their- deliverance; the one is as easy to him as the other; and
the number of the one as distinctly known by him as the multi-
tude of the other. “For great is our Lord, and of great power;
his understanding is infinite” (ver. 5). He wants not knowledge
to know the objects, nor Lpower to eifect his will concerning them.
Of eat power, mana. uch power, plenteous in power; so the
woriglr ':'\, is rendered (Ps. v. 15), '|‘l|'l3", a multitude of ower, as
well as a multitude of mercy; a power that exceeds all created
power and understanding. His understanding is infinite. You may
not imagine, how he can call all the stars biy name, the multitude of
the visible being so great, and the multitu e of the invisible being
greater; but dyou must know, that as God is Almighty, so he is om-
niscient; an as there is no end of his power, so no account can
exactly beNgiven of his understanding; his understandingis infinite,
"D’2P1*:<. o number or account of it; and so the same words are
rendered, “a nation strong, and without number” (Joel i. 6); no end
of his understanding: (Syriac) no measure, no bounds. His essence
is infinite, and so is his power and understanding; and so vast is his
knowledge, that we can no more comprehend it, than we can
measure spaces that are without limits, or tell the minutes or hours
of eternity. Who, then, can fathom that whereof there is no num-
ber, but which exceeds all, so that there is no searching of it
out? He knows universals, he knows particulars: we must not
take understanding here, as noting _a faculty, but the use of the
understanding in the knowledge of things, and the judgment,
n:~:n, in the consideration of them, and so it is often used. In
the verse there is a description of God. 1. In his essence, “great
is our Lord.” 2. In his power of “great power.” 3. In his
knowledge, “his understanding is infinite :” is understanding is
his eye, and his power is his arm. Of his infinite understanding]
am to discourse.
Doctrine. God hath an infinite knowledge and understanding. All
knowledge. Omnipresence, which before we spake of] respects his
essence; omniscience resnects his understanding, according to our

