ON sons icsownsnam' 409
manner of ooncepfion. This is clear in Scripture; hence God 'is
called a God of nowledge (Sam.   8), “ the Lord is a God of
knowledge,” (Heh) knowledges, in the p ural number, of all kind of
knowledge; it is spoken there to quell man’s pride in his own reason
and parts; what is the knowledge of man but a spark to the whole
element of Ere, a grain of dust, and worse than nothing, in com-
parimn of the knowledge of God, as his essence is in comparison of
the essence of God? All kind of knowledge.. He knows what
an ls know, what man knows, and infinitely more; he knows him~
eel? his own operations, all his creatures, the notions and thoughts
of them; he is understanding above understanding, mind above
mind, the mind ‘of minds, the light of lights; this the Greek word,
Gm, signifies in the etymology o it, of 6Plia0»u,1;0 wg, to contemplate;
and MIM' of J¢lw,_scio. The names of God signify a nature, viewing
and piercing all things; and the attribution of our senses to God in
Scripture, as hearing and seeing, which are the senses whereby
knowledge enters into us, signifies God’s lmowledge.
l. 'l‘he notion of God’s knowledge of all things lies above the
mins of nature; it was not obliterated by the fall of man. It was
neewry offending man was to know that he had a Creator whom
he had injured, that he had a Judge to try and punish him; since
God thought ,fit to keep up the world, it had been ke t up to no
purpose, had not this notion been continued alive in this mmds of
men; there would not have been any practice of his laws, no bar to
the worst of crimes. If men had thought they had to deal with an
lgnorant Deity, there could be no practice of religion. Who would
lift up his eyes, or spread his hands towards heaven, if he imagined
his devotion were directed to a God as blind as the heathens imagined
fortune? To what boot would it be for them to make heaven and
arth mound with their cries, if they had not thought God had an
eyeto see them, and an ear to hear them? And indeed the ver
notion of a God at the first blush, speaks him a Being endued with
understanding; no man can imaine a Creator void of one of the
noblest perfections belonging to t ose creatures, that are the Bower
and cream of his works.
2. Therefore all nations acknowledge this, aswell as the existence
and being of God. No nation but had their temples, particular
wrcmonies of worship, and presented their sacrifices, w ich they
Gould not have been so vain as to do, without an acknowledgment
of this attribute. This notion of God’s knowledge owed not its rise
l0_ tradition, but to natural impllantation; it was born and grew up
nth every rational creature. hough the several nations and men
of the world agreed not in one kind of deity, or in their sentiments
of his nature or other pprfections, some judging him clothed with a
ine and pure body, ot ers judging him an uncompoundedhspirit,
some fixing him to a seat in the heavens, others owning his un1ver~
ill presence in all parts ofthe world; yet they all agreed in the uni-
versality of his knowledge, and their own consciences reflecting
their crimes, unknown to any but themselves, would keep this notion
in some vigor, whether they would or no. Now this being implanted
inthe minds of all men by nature, cannot be false, for nature im-

