1
410 cniumocx ON THE srrnmnras.
prints not in the minds of all men an assent to a falsity. Nature
would not pervert the reason and minds of men. Universal notions
of God are hom original, not lapsed nature, and preserved in man-
kind in order to a restoration from a lapsed state. The heathens
did acknowledge this: in all the solemn covenants, selemnized with
oaths and the invocation of the name of God, this attribute was sup-
posed! They confessed knowledge to be eculiar to the Deity;
sczkmiia deomm vita, saith Cicero. Some called him Mic, mens, mind,
pure understanding, without any note, 'E~61vwc, the ins mr of al1_
As the called him life, because he was the author of Iiiie, so they
called liim intellectus, because he was the author of all knowledge
and understanding in his creatures; and one being asked, whether any
man could be hid h°om_ God? no, saith he, not so much as thinking)
Some call him the e e of the world; and the Egy tians re resented
God by an eye on the top of a sceptre, because Grbd is allpeye, and
can be ignorant of nothing.
And the same nation made eyes and ears of the most excellent
metals, consecrating themto God, and hanging them up in the midst
of their temples, in signiiication of God’s seeing and hearing all
things; hence the called God light, aswell as the Scripture, because
all things a.re visible to him.
For the better understanding of this, we will enquire, I. What
kind of knowledge or understanding there is in God. II. “That
God knows. III. How God knows things. IV. The proof that
God knows all things. V. The use of all to ourselves.
I. What kind of understanding or knowledge there is in God.
The knowledge of God in Scripture hath various names, according
to the various relations or objects of it: in respect of present things,
it is called knowledge or sight; in respect o things past, remem-
brance; in respect of things future, or to come, it is called fore-
knowledge, or prescience (1 Pet. i. 2); in regard of the universality
of the objects, it is called omniscience; in regard to the simple un-
derstanding of things, it is called knowledge; urregard of actin and
modelling the ways of acting, it is called wisdom and prudence
(Eph. i. 8). He must have knowled e, otherwise he could not be
wise; wisdom is the flower of knowledgge, and knowledge is the root
of wisdom. As to what this knowledge is, if we know what knowl-
edge is in man, we may apprehend what it is in God, removing all
imperfection from it, and ascribing to him the most eminent way of
understanding; ,because we cannot comprehend God, but as he is
pleased to condescend to us in his own ways of discovery, that is,
under some way of similitude to his`peri`ectest creatures, therefore
we have a notion of God by his understanding and will; understand-
ing, whereby he conceives and apprehends things; will, whereby he
extends himself in acting according to his wisdom, and whereby he
doth approve or disapprove; get we must not measure his under-
standing by our own, or thin it to be of so gross a temper as a
created mind' that he hath eyes of Hesh, or sees or knows as man
' Agamemnon, (Homer Il. 8. v. 8.) making a Covenant with Priam, invoaites the Su;
Hilzog bg miur’ é¢opgi¢° nal mivf’ hraxotiug. '
' Gamxwhin 1 Pa. Aqui. Q, 14. cap. 1 p. 119. Clem. Alexander Strom. lib. L

