ON GOD'S KNOWLEDGE. 411
see (Job x. 4). We can no more measure his knowledge by onli'
than we can rneas1u°e his essence by our essence. As he hath an
incom rehensible essence, to which ours is but as a drop of a bucket,
so he hath an incomprehensible knowledge, to which ours is but as
a grain of dust, or mere darkness: his thoughts are above our
thoughts, as the heavens are above the earth. The knowledge of
God is variously divided by the schools, and acknowledged by all
divines.
1. A knowledge ~m1riom1s et simpliczls intelligentiw; the one we may
call a sight, the other an understanding; the one refers to sense, the
other to the mind. (L) A knowledge of vision or sight. Thus God
knows himself and all things that really were, are, or shall be in
time; all those things which he hath decreed to be, though they are
not yet actually sprung up in the world, but lie eouchant in their
causes.   A knowledge of intelligence or simple understanding.
The object of this is not things that are in being, or that shall by
any decree of God ever be existent in the world, but such things as
arepossible to be wrought by the power of God, though they shall
never in the' least peep u into being, but lie forever wra t up in
darknes and nothing.” This also is a necessary knowledge to be
allowed to God, because the object of this knowledge is necessary.
The lpossibility of more creatures than ever were or shall be, is a
cone usion that hath a necessary truth in it; as it is necessar that
the power of God can produce more creatures, though it ge not
necessary that it should produce more creatures, so it is necessary
that whatsoever the power of God can work, is possible to be. And
3 God knows this possibility, so he knows all the objects that are
thus possible; and herein doth much consist the iniiniteness of his
knowledge, as shall be shown presently. These two kinds of knowl
edge ditfer; that of vision, is of things which God hath decreed to
be, though they are not yet; that of intelligence is of things which
never shall be; yet the may be, or are possible to be, if God please
to will and order their being; one respects things that shall be, the
other, things that may be, and are not repugnant to the nature of
God to be. The knowledge of vision follows the act of God’s will,
and supposeth an act of §od’s will before, decreeing things to be.
(If we could suppose any ‘first or second in God’s decree, we might
say God knew them as possible before he decreed them; he knew
them as future, because e decreed them.) For without the will of
God decreeing a thing to come to pass, God cannot know that it will
infallibly come to ass. But the knowled e of intelligence stands
without any act ofhis will, in order to the icing of those things he
knows; he knows possible things only in his power; he knows other
things both in his power as able to effect them, and in his will, as
determining the being of them; such knowledge we must grant to
be in God, for there is such a k'nd of knowledge in man ; for man
doth not onl know and see what is before his eyes in this world,
but he may have a conception of man more worlds, and many more
treatures, which he knows are possible to the lpower of God.
2. There is a speculative and practical know edge in God. (L) A
° Suarez do Deo, lib. 8. cap. 4. p. 180.

