112 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
speculative knowledge is, when the truth of a thing is known with
out a respect to any working or practical operation. The knowled
of things possible is in God only speculative# and some say Goéli
knowledge of himself is only s eculative, because there is nothing
for God to work in himself: and though he knows himself, yet this
knowledge of himself doth not terminate there, but Bowers into a
love of himself, and delight in himself; yet this love of himself, and
delight inhimsclf, is not enough to make it a practical knowledge,
because it is natural, and naturally and necessarily tiows from the
knowledge of himself and his own goodness: he cannot but love
himself, and delight in himself, upon the knowledge of himself,
But that which is (properly practice, is where there is a dominion
over the action, an it is wrought not naturally and necessarily, but
in a way of freedom and counsel. As when we see a beautiful flower
or other thin , there ariseth a deli ht in the mind; this no man will
call praeticeamecause it is a naturaT affection of the will, arising from
the virtue of the object, without any consideration of the understand~
ing in a practical manner by counselling, commanding, &»c. (2.) A
practical knowledge: which tends to operation and practice, and is
the principle of working about things that are known ; as the knowl-
edge an artificer hath in an art or mystery. This knowledge is in
God: the knowledge he hath of the things he hath decreed, is such
a kind of knowled e; for it terminates in the act of creation, which
is not a natural and necessary act, as the loving himself, and dclighb
ing in himself is, but wholly free: for it was at his liberty whether
he would create them or no; this is called discretion (Jer. x. 12):
“He hath stretched out the heavens by his discretion.” Such also
is his knowledge of the things he hath created, and which are in
being, for it terminates in the government of them for his own glori-
ous ends. It is by this knowledge “the depths are broken up, and
the clouds drop down their dew’ (Prov. iii. 20). This is a knowl-
edge whereby he knows the essence, chualities, and pro erties of
what he creates and overns in order to is own glory, and the com#
mon good of the worTd over which he resides; so t at speculative
knowledge is God’s knowledge of himself and things possi le ; prac-
tical knowledge is his knowledge of his creatures and things overn-
able ;` yet in some sort this practical knowledge is not onl 0% things
that are made, but of things which are possible, which (iiod might
make, though he will not: for as he knows that they can be created,
so he knows how they are to be created, and how to be governed,
though he never will create them. This is a practical knowledge:
for it is not requisite to constitute a knowledge practical, actually to
act, but that the knowledge in itself be referable to action!
3. There is a knowledge of approbation, as well as apprehension.
This the Scripture often mentions. Words of understanding are
used to signify the acts of affection. This knowledge adds to the
simple act of the understanding, the complacency and pleasure of the
will, and is impro erly knowledge, because it belongs to the will,
and not to the undierstanding; only it is radically in t e understand-
ing, because affection implies knowledge: men cannot approve of
4 Suarez de Deo, lib. 8. cap. 4. p. 188. * Ibid p. 140.

