on cons xsownsncn. 418
that which they are ignorant ofl Thus knowledge is taken (Amos
iii. 72; You only have I known of all the families of the earth; and
(2 ii. 19), “The Lord knows who are his,” that is, he loves
them; he doth not onlly know them, but acknowledges them for his
own. It notes, not on y an exact understanding, but a special care
of them; and so is that to be understood (Gen. i.), “ God saw every
thing that he had made, and behold it was very glood z” that is, he
saw it with an eye of approbation, as well as appre ension. This is
gmimded utgon God’s knowledge of vision, his sight of his creatures;
hr God do not love or delight in anything but what is actually in
being, or what he hath decreed to bring into being. On thc con-
trary, also, when God doth not approve, he is said not to know
(Mitt. xxv. 12), “I know you not,” and (Matt.   23), “I never
knew you ;” he doth not approve of their works. It is not an igno-
rance of understandi , but an ignorance of will; for while he saith
he never knew them?§1e testifies that he did know them, in render-
ing the reason of his disapproving them, because he knows all their
works: so he lcnows them, and doth not know them in a diilerent
manner-: he knows them so as to understand them, but he doth not
know them so as to love them. We must, then, ascribe an univer-
mlknowledge to God. If we deny him a speculative knowledge,
or knowledielsof intelligence, we destroy his Deity, we make him
ignorant of ° own power: if we' deny him practical knowledge, we
deny ourselves to be his creatures; for, as his creatures, we are the
fruits of this, his discretion, discovered in creation: if we deny his
knowledge of vision, we deny his governing dominion. How can
he exercise a sovereign and uncontrollable dominion, that is ignorant
ofthe nature and qualities of the thin he is to govern? If he had
not knowledge he could make no revelition ; he that knows not can-
not dictate; we could then have no Seri ture. To deny God knowl-
edge, is to dash out the Scripture, and d)emolish the Deity. God is
described in Zech.   9, “ with seven eyes,” to show is perfect
knowledge of all things, all occurrences in the world; and the cheru-
hims, or whatsoever is meant by the wings, are described to be full
of eyes, both “ before and behind” (Ezek. i. 18), round about them;
much more is God all eye, all ear, all understanding. The sun is a
naturalimage ofGod;1fthe sun had an e e, it would see; ifithad
an understanding, it would know all visihle things; it would see
what it shines upon, and understand what it iniiuenceth, in the most
obscure bowels of the earth. Doth God excel his creature, the sim,
m_excellenc'y and beauty, and not in light and understandin ? cer
'vainly more than the sun excels an atom or grain of dust. Vge may
yet make some representation of this knowledge of God by a lower
ding, a picture, which seems to look upon every one, though there
be never so great a multitude in the room where it hangs; no man
W1 cast his eye upon it, but it seems to behold 'him in particular,
#nfl so exactly, as if there were none but him upon whom the eye
ofit were fixed ; and every man Ends the same cast of it: shall art
frame a thing of that nature, and shall not the God of art and all
knowledge, be much more in reality than that is in imagination?
Shall not God have a far greater capacity to behold everything in

