414 cinmrocx ON nm ATTRIBUTES.
the world, which is infinitely less to him than a wide room to a pic
ture ?
II. The second thing, What God knows; how far his understand
ing reaches.
1. God knows himself, and onl knows himself This is the iilst
and original knowledge, wherein he excels all creatures No man
doth exactly know himself; much less doth he understand the full
nature of a spirit; much less still the nature and perfections of God;
for what proportion can there be between a finite faculty and an
inlinite o ject? Herein consists the infiniteness of Gods knowl-
edie, that he knows his own essence, that he knows that which is
un nowable to any else. It doth not so much consist in knowing
the creatures, which he hath made, as in knowing himself, who was
never made. It is not so much infinite, because he knows all things
which are in the world, or that shall be; or things that he can
make, because the number of them is Hnite; but because he hath a
perfect and comprehensive knowledge of his own infinite perfec-
tionsf Though it be said that angels “see his face” (Matt. xviii.
10), that sight notes rather their immediate attendance, than their
exact knowledge; they see some signs of his presence and majesty,
more illustrious and express than ever appeared to man in this
life; but the essence of God is invisible to them, hid from them
in the secret place of eternity; none knows God but himself
(1 Cor. ii. 11): “What man knows the things of a man save
the spirit of a man? so the things of God knows no man but the
Spirit of God; the Spirit of God searches the deep thin of God ;"
searcheth, that is, exactly knows, thoroughly understand; as those
who have their eyes in every chink and crevice, to see what lies
hid there; the word search notes not an inqu` , but an exact
knowledge, such as men have of things upon algligent scrutiny:
as when God is said to search the heart and the reins, it doth not
signify a precedent ignorance, but an exact knowledge of the most
intimate corners of the hearts of men. As the conceptions of men
are unknown to any but themselves, so the depths of the divine
essence, perfections, and decrees, are unknown to any but to God
himself; he only knows what he is, and what he knows, what he
can do, and what he hath decreed to do. For first, if God did not
know himself, he would not be perfect. It is the perfection of a
creature to know itself, much more a perfection belonging to God.
If God did not comprehend himself, he would want an inhnite per-
fection, and so would cease to be God, in being defective in that
which intellectual creatures in some measure possess. As God is
the most perfect being, so he must have the most dperfect under-
standing: if he did not understand himself, he woul be under the
greatest ignorance, because he would he ignorant of the most excel-
ent object. Ignorance is the imperfection of the understanding
and ignorance of one’s self is a greater imperfection than igno-
rance of things without. If God should know all things without
himself, and not know himself, he would not have the most perfect
knowledge, because he would not have the knowledge of the best
0 Moulin.

