ON sons xsownnnes. 415
of objects. Secondly, Without the knowledge of himself] he could
not be blessed. Nothing can have any complacenc in itself, with-
out knowledge of itself Nothing can in a rational manner enjoy
itself; without understanding itself The blessedness of God consists
not in the knowledge of anything without him, but in the knowledge
of himself and his own excellenc , as the principle of all things;
if, therefore, he did not perfectly know himself and his own hap-_
piness, he could not enjoy a happiness; for to be, and not to know
to be, is as if a thing were not. “He is God, blessed forever”
Slllom. ix. 5.), and therefore forever had a knowledge of himselfl
hinily, Without the knowledge of himself, he could create noth-
ing. For he would be ignorant of his own power, and his own
abilit ; and he that doth not know how far his power extends,
couldy not act: if he did not know himself, he could know nothing;
and he that knows nothin , can do nothing; he could not know
an elfect to be po ible to him, unless he knew his own wer as
aeause. Fourthly, Without the knowledge of himself, he could
govern nothing. He could not, without the knowledge of his own
oliness and righteousness, prescribe laws to men, nor without a
knowledge of his own nature order himself a manner of worship
suitable to it. All worship must be congruous to the dignity an
nature of the ob`ect worshipped: he must therefore know his own
authority, whereby worship was to be enacted; his own excellency,
to which worship was to be suited; his own glory, to which wor-
ship was to be directed. If he did not know himself; he did not
know what to punish, because he would not know what was con-
trary to himse f: not knowing himself] he wouldnot know what
was a contempt of him, and what an adoration of him; what was
worthy of God, and what was unworthy of him. In fine, he could
not know other things, unless he knew himself; unless he knew
his own power, he could not know how he created things; unless
he knew his own wisdom, he could not know the beauty of his
works; unless he knew his own glory, he could not know the end
of his works; unless he knew his own holiness, he could not know
what was evil; and unless he knew his own justice, he could not
know how to punish the crimes of his oifending creatures, And,
therefore,
(L) God knows himself, because his knowledge, with his will, is
the cause of all other things that can fall under his cognizance:
he knows himself first, before he can know anfy other thing; that
is, first according to our conceptions; for, indee , God knows him-
self and all other things at once; he is the first truth, and there-
fore is the first object of his own understanding( There is nothing
more excellent than himself, and therefore not ing more known to
him than himself As he is all~knowled e, so he hath in himself
the most excellent object of knowledge. 'li understand, is properly
toknow one’s self No object is so intelligible to God as God is
10 himself nor so intimately and immediately `oined with his under-
itandmg as himself; for his understanding is his essence, himself
(2.) He knows himself by his own essence. He knows not him-
self and his own power by the effect, because he knows himself

