416 cnsinrocir ON THE Arrnrnnrns.
from eternity, before there was a world, or any effect of his power
extant. It is not a knowled e by the cause, for God hath no cause;
nor a knowledge of himself by any species, or anything from with~
out: if it were anything from wit out himself; that must be created
or uucreated; if uncreated it would be God; and so we must either
own many Gods, or own it to be his essence, and so not distinct
from himself: if created, then his knowledge of himself would de-
pend upon a. creature: he could not, then, know himself from eter-
nity, but in time, because nothing can be created from eternity, but
in time. God knows not himself by any fimulty, for there is no
composition in God; he is not made up of parts, but is a simple be-
ing; some, therefore, have called God, not intellectus, understanding.
because that savors of a faculty, but intellectio, intellection: God in
all act in the knowledge of himself and his knowledge of other
thin s.
(3E5 God, therefore, knows himself perfectly, comprehensively.
Nothing in his own nature is concealed from hun; he reflects u n
everything that he is.8 There is a positive comprehension, so good
doth not com rehend himself; for what is comprehended hath
bounds, and what is comprehended b itself is Hnite to itself; and
there is a negative comprehension-(lied so comprehends himself;
nothing in his own nature is obscure to him, unknown b him; for
there is as great a perfection in the understanding of God to know,
as there is in the divine nature to be known. The understanding
of God, and the nature of God, are both infinite, and so equal to
one another: his understanding is e ual to himself; he knows him~
self so well, that nothing can be (known by him more rfectly
than himself is known to himself He knows himself in tg; high-
est manner, because nothing is so proportioned to the understand-
ing of God as himself He knows his own essence, goodness,
power; all his perfections, decrees, intentions, acts, the infinite
capacity of his own understanding, so that nothing of himself is in
the dark to himself: and, in this respect, some use this expression,
that the infiniteness of God is in a manner finite to himself; because
it is comprehended by himself Thus God' transcends all creatures;
thus his understanding is truly innnite, because nothing but him-
self is an infinite object for xt: what angels may understand of
themselves perfectly I know not, but no creature in the world un-
derstands himself Man understands not fully the excellency and
parts of his own nature; upon God’s knowledge of himself de nds
the comfort of his people, and the terror ofthe wicked: this is
also a. clear argument or his knowledge of all other things with~
out himself; he that knows himself; must needs know all other
things less than himself, and which were made by himself; when
the knowledge of his own immensity and infiniteness is not an
object too dillicult for him, the knowledge of a finite and limited
creature, in all his actions, thoughts, circumstances, cannot be too
hard for him: since he knows himself, who is infinite, he can-
not but know whatsoever is finite. This is the lbuudalion of all
his other knowledge; the knowledge of everything present, past,
I Magnlnnells.

