on cons xrrownnncn. 417
and to come, is far less than the knowledge of himself He is more
incomprehensible in his own nature, than all things created, or
that can be ereated,iput together can be. If -he, then, have a per-
fect comprehensive knowledge ,of his own nature, an knowledge
of all other things is less than- the knowledge of himselil; this ought
to be well considered by us, as the fountain whence all his other
knowledge flows.
2. Therefore God knows all other things, whether the be possi-
ble, past, present,.or future; whether they be things that lie can do,
but will never do, or whether they be things that he hath done, but
are not now; things that ,are now in being, or things that are not
now existing, that lie in the womb .of their proper and immediate
causes.” If his nnderstandingbe inhnite, he then knows all things
whatsoever that can bekuown, else his understanding would have
hounds,-andwhat _hath limits is not infinite, but finite., .If he be
ignorant of any onething that is knowable, that is a bound to him,
it comes with an exception, a but, God knows all things but this; a
bar is then set to hisknowledge. r If there were anything, any par-
ticular circumstance in t the whole creation or non-creation, and
possible to`be known by him, andyet were unknown to him, he
could not be said to be omniscient; as he would not be Almighty
if any one thing, that implied not a, repugnancy to his nature, did
transcend his power.
First, All things ossible. No question but God _knows what he
could create, as well) as what he hath created; what , he would not
create, as well as what he resolved to create; heyknew what he would
not do before he willed to do it; this is the next .thing which declares
the rinfinitenessrof his_ understanding; for, as his power is infinite,
and can create innumerable worlds. and creatures, so is his knowedge
infinite, in knowing ,innumerable things possible to his power.
Possibles are infinite; that is, there. ,is..no end of what,God can do,
and therefore no end of what God doth know; otherwise his power
would be more infinite than his knowledge: if he knew only what
is created, there would be an end of his understanding, because all
creatures may benumbered, but possibletthings cannot be reckoned
up by any creature. There is the same reason of this in eternity;
when never so many numbers of years are run out, there is still
more to come, there still wants an end; and when millions of worlds
are created, there is no more an end of God’s power than of eternity.
Thus there is no end of his understanding; that is, his knowledge
is not terminated by anything. This the Scripture gives us some
account. of : God knows things that are not, “for he calls things
that are not as if they were” (Rom. iv. 17); he calls things that are
not, as if they were in being; what he calls is not unknown to him:
if he knows things thatare not, he knows things that may never be;
as he knows things that shall be, because he wi ls them, so he knows
things that might be, because he ,is able to effect them: he knew that
the inhabitants of Keilali would betray David to Saul if he remained
in that place (1 Sam. xxiii. 11); he knew what they would do upon
that occasion, though it was never done; as he knew what was in
* Peter. Theol. Dcgm. lib. p. 257.
vor.. 1.-27

