-118 'A cmumocx ON 'rms arrnrsurns.
then' power and in their wi11s,so he must needs know what is within
the compass of his own power; as he can permit more than he doth
permit so he knows what he can permit, and what, upon that r-
mission, would be done by his creatures; so God knew the possibdhy
of _the Tyrians’ repentance, if they had had the same means, heard
the same truths, and beheld the same miracles which were offered
tphithe ears, agdbpreseiéieg to the eyes of the Jews (Matt. xi. 21).
s must nee s so, use
1. Mah knows things that are possible fo. him, though he win
never effect them. A carpenter knows a house in the model he hath
of it in his head, though e never build a house according to that
model. A watch-maker hath the frame of a watch in his mind,
which he will never work with his instruments; man knows what
he could do, though he never intends to do it.i As the understand-
ing of man hath a virtue, that where it sees one ,man it may imag-
ine thousands of men ofthe same shape, stature, form, parts; yea,
taller, more `vigorous, sprightly, intelligent, than the man he sees;
because it is possible such a number may be. Shall not the under-
standinig of God much more know what he is able to effect, since
the un crstanding of man can know what he is never able to pro-
duce, yet may be produced by God, viz. that he who reduced this
man which I see, can produce a thousand exactly likelhim? If the
Divine understanding did not know infinite thin ,but were confined
to a certain number, it may be demanded whetfer God can under-
stand anything farther than that number, or whether he cannot?
If he can, then he doth actually understand all those things which
he hath a power to understand; otherwise there would be an increase
of God’s knowledge, if it were actually now, and not before, and so
he would be more perfect than he was before; if he cannot under-
stand them, then he cannot understand what a human mind can un-
derstand; for our understandings can multiply numbers in f1lfl1l!:°
tum; and there is no number so great, but a man can still add to it:
we must suppose the divine understanding more excellent in knowl-
edge. God nows all that a man can imagine, though it never were,
nor never shall be; he must needs know whatsoever is in the power
of man to imagine or think, because God concurs to the sup ort of
the faculty in that imagination; and though it may be replied, an
atheist may imagine that there is no God, a man may imagine that
God can lie, or that he can be destroyed; doth God know therefore
that he is not? or that he can lie, or cease to be? No, he knows he
cannot; his knowledge extends to things possible, not to things
impossible to himself; he knows it as imaginable by man, not as
possible in itself; because it is utterly impossible, and repugnant
to the nature of God# since he eminently contains in himself all
timings pissible, pas; present, and to come; he cannot know himself
wit out 'nowm t em.
2. God knowiiig his own power, knows whatsoever is in his wer
to effect. If he knows not all things possible, he could notlltonow
the extent of his own power, and so would not know himself; as a
cause suiiicient for more things than he hath created. How can he
l Ficin de Immort. lib. 2. cap.-10. * Gamach.

