on cons xNowL1-mea. 419
comqirehend himself; who comprehends not all eiiluxes of things
pow le that may come from him, and be wrought by him? How
can he know himself as a. cause, if he know not the objects and
works which he is able to produce 'Pl Since the power of (iod ex
tends to ‘numberless things, his knowledge also extends to number-
less objects; as if a unit is, could see the numbers it could produce,
it would see infinite numbers: for a unit, as it were, all number.
God knowing the fruitfulness of his own virtue, knows a numberless
multitude of thin which he can do, more than have been done, or
shall be done by Em; he therefore knows innumerable worlds, in-
numerable angels, with higher erfections, than any of them which
he hath created have' so that  the world should last man millions
of years, God knows that he can every day. create another world
more capacious than this; and -having created an inconceivable
number, he knows he could still create more: so that he beholds in-
iinite worlds, infinite numbers of men, and other creatures in him-
self, infinite kinds of things, infinite species, and individuals under
those kinds, even as many as he can create, if his will did order and
determine it; fornot being ignorant of his own power, he cannot
be ignorant of the eifects wherein it may display and discover itselif
A comprehensive knowledge of his own power doth necessarily in-
clude the objects of that power; so he knows whatsoever he could
efect, and whatsoever he could ermit, if he pleased to do it. If
God could not understand more than he hath created, he could not
create more than he hath created: for it cannot be conceived how
he can create anything that he is ignorant of; what he doth not
know, he cannot do: he must know also' the extent of his own
goodness, and how far anything is capable to partake of it: so much
therefore, as any detract from the knowledge of God, they detract
from his power.
3. It is further evident that God knows all possible things, because
he knew those things which he has created, before they were created,
when they were yet in a possibility. If God knew things before they
were created, he knew them when they were in a possibility, and not
in actual reality. It is absurd to imagine that his understanding did
laekey after the creatures, and draw knowledge from them aiter they
were created. It is absurd to think that God did create, before he
knew what he could or would create. If he knew those things he
did create when they were possible, he must know all things which
he can create, and therefore all things that are possible. To conclude
this, we must consider that this knowled e is of another kind than
his knowledge of things that are or shall  He sees possible things
as possible, not as things that ever are or shall be. It he saw them
as existing or future, and they shall never be, this knowledge would
be false, there would be a deceit in it, which cannot be. He knows
those things not in themselves, because they are not, nor in their
causes, because they shall never be; he knows them in his own
power, not in his will: he understands them as able to produce
them, not as willing to etfect them. Things powible he knows only
in hispower; things future he knows both in his power and his
\ Ficiu de Immort. lib. 2. cap. 10.

