420 cnsmrocx ON 'rss nrrnxsvrzs.
fwill, as'he'is both able and determined in his owngdod-pleasure te
give being tothem. Those that shall never come to pass, he knows
only in himself as-a suilicient cause-; thosethiugs t at shall come
into being, he knows. in himself as the efficient cause, and also in
their immediate second causes. This should teach us to spend our
thoughts in the admiration of the excellency of God, and the divine
knowledge; his understandingxis infinite. _ _
byggibtiiin liiihs(;§`dtd{[;(l;1Sai;=i1hisueiscglléehcyqdlbgvg :ll the-e.di,i11iiJii:i;
adored idols (Isa. xli. 22): “Let them show the former things, what
they be, that we mag' consider them, and -know the latter end of
them.’? He knowst em as if they were now present, and not past:
for indeed 'in his eterngy there is nothing past or future to his
knowledge., ,This is call remembrance in Scripture =as when God
nsnsmbemd- Rache1’s prayer ,for it child (Gen. xxx:,22), and he it
said to put tears into his -bottle, and write .them in his book of
aceompts, which signifies the exact and unerring knowledge in God
of the minute circumstances past in the world; and this knowledge
is called a book of remembrance (Mal. iii. 16% signifying the per
petual resence of things past before him. - here are two elegant
expressiions, signifying the certainty and perpetuity of God’s knowl-
edge of sins past (Job xiv. 17) “Mytransgression is sealed up in a
bag, and thou sewest up mine; iniquity ;" a metaphor, taken iiom
men that put up in a bag the money they would charily keep, tie
the bag, sew up the hholes, and bind it hard, that ngthgangbmay tall
out' or a vessel w ercin they reserve liquors, an u it with
piétdh and glutinbus stud, that -nothing may leak out, but be safely
pt till the time of use; or else as some think, from the bags attor-
nies carry with them, full of wiitings, when they are to manage a
cause against a person. Thus we find God often in Scripture calling
to men’s minds their past actions, upbraiding them with their ingrati-
tude wherein he testifies his remembrance of his own past' benefits
and ,their crimes. His knowledge inthis regard hath something of
infinity in it, since though the sins of all men that have been in the
worad are finite in regard of number, yet when the sins of one man
in t oughta, words, and deeds are numberless in his own account,
and perhaps in the count oi; .any creature, the sins of all the vast
numbers o men that have been, or shall be, are much more number-
less, it cannot be less than infinite knowledge that can make a col-
lection of them,-and take a survey of them all at once. If past
things had not beenknown b God, how could Moses have been
acquainted with the original of things? How could he have declared
the former transactions, wherein all histories are silent but~ the Scrip-
ture? How could. he know the cause of man’s present miserg so
man ages after wherewith all hilosophy was unacquainted? ow
could he have writ the order of time creation, the particulars of the sin
of Adam, the circumstances of Cain’s murder t e rivate h of
Lamech to his wives, if God had not revealed tiiem? gud how
could a revelation be made, if things past were forgotten bil him?
Do we not remember man .things done among men as w as b
ourselves, and reserve the ibnzns of divers things in oui~ minds, which

