on sorrs xrrownsnss. ' 421
rise as occasions are presented to draw them forth? And shall not
Godmuch more, who hath no cloud of darkness upon his under-
standing? A man that makes a curious picture, hat the form of it
in his mind before he made it; and if ' the fire burn it, the form of it
in his mind is not destroyed by the Hre, but retained init. Grod’s
memory is no less perfect than his understanding. If he did not
know things past, he could not be a. righteous Govemor, or exercise
any judicial act in a ‘righteous manner; he could not dispense
rewards and punishments, according to his promises and threaten-
ings, if things that were past could be forgotten by him; he could
not require that which is East gflccles.   15), if he did not remem-
ber that whichis pgast. nd t ough God he said to forget in Scrip-
ture, and not to ' now his geople, and his peiple pray to him to
remember them, as if he ‘ha ‘forgotten them ( s. cxix. 49), this is
improperly ascribed to God.” As God is said to repent, when he
changes things according to his counsel beyond the expectation of
men, so he is said to forget, when he defers the making good his
promise to the godly; or his threatenings to the wicked; this is not
adefect of memory lon 'ng to his mind, but an act of his will;
When he is said to rememdier his covenant, it is to will grace accord-
ing to his covenant; when he is said to forget his covenant, it is to
intercept the iniluences of it, whereby to punish the sin of his ppople;
and when he is said not to know his eople, it is not an a. so ute
forfretfulness of them, but withdrawing Idrorn them the testimonies
of his kindness, and clouding the signs of his favor; so God in pars
don is said to forget sin, not that he ceaseth to know it, but ceaseth
to punish it; It is not to be meant of a simple forgetfulness, or a
lapse of his memory, but of a judicial forgetfulness; so when his
people in Seri ture gray, Lord, remember th word unto they servant,
no more is to be un erstood but, Lord, fulfil’ thy word an promise
to thy servant. -
Thirdly, He knows things present (Heb. iv. 13): “All things are
naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do ;”
this is grounded upon' the knowledge of himself; it is not so diflicult
to know all creatures exactly, as to 'know himself; because the are
finite, but himself is infinite; he knows his own power, and there-
fore everything through which his omnipotence is diffused, all the
acts and objects of it; not the leastthing( that is the birth of his
power, can be concealed Hom him; he nows,his own oodness,
and therefore every object upon which the warm beams of his good-
ness strike; he therefore knows distinctly the properties of every
creature, because every pro ertylin them is a ray of his oodness;
he is not only the eilicient, gut t e exemplary cause; there%ore as he
knows all that his power hath wrought, as he isthe efficient, so he
knows them in himself as the pattern; as a carpenter can give an
account of every part and passage in a house he ath built, by con-
mlting the model in his own mind, whereb he built it. “He looked
n n 31] thin after he had made them, and' ronounced them good"
(d;;_ i, 3) ful? of a natural goodness he had endowed them with:
be did not ignorantly pronounce them so, and call them- good,
° Bradvmrd. '

