422 cmimocx ON 'rns Arrnmurns.
whether he knew~ them or not; and therefore he knows them in par
ticular, as he knew them all in their first presence. Is there any
reason he should be ignorant of everything no\v present in the
world, or that anything that derives an existence from him as a free
cause, should be concealed from him? If he did not know things
present in their particularities, many things would be known by
man, yea, by beasts, which the infinite Go were ignorant of; and
if he did 'not know all things resent, but only some, it is possible
for the most blessed God to be deceived and be miserable: ignorance
is a calamity to the understanding: he could not prescribe laws to
his creatures, unless he knew their natures to which those laws
were to be suited: no, not natural ordinances to the sun, moon, and
heavenly bodies, and inanimate creatures, unless he knew the vigor
and virtue in them, to execute those ordinances; for to prescribe
laws above the nature of things, is inconsistent with the wisdom of
government; he must know how far they were able to obeiy; whether
the laws were suited to their ability: and for his rationa creatures,
whether the punishments annexed to the law were proper, and suited
to the transgression of the creature.
1. He knows all creatures from the highest to the lowest, the least
as well as the greatest. He knows the ravens and their young ones
Job xxxviii. 41); the drops of rain and dew which he hath begotten
Job xxxviii. 29); every bird in the air, as well as any man doth
what he hath in a cage at home (Ps. l. Hg: “ I know all the fowls in
the mountains, and the wild beasts in t e field ;” which some reau
creeping things The clouds are numbered in his wisdom gl ob
xxxviii. 37 ); every' worm in the earth, every drop of rain that alla
upon the ground, t e flakes of snow, and the knots of hail, the sands
upon the sea-shore, the hairs upon the head; it is no more absurd to
imagine that God knows them, than that God made them; the' are
all the effects of his power, as well as the stars which he call; by
their names, as well as the most glorious angel and blessed spirit;
he knows them as well as if there were none but them in particular
for him to know; the least things were framed by his art as well as
the greatest; the least things partake of his goodness as well as the
greatest; he knows his own arts, and his own goodness, and there~
fore all the stamps and impressions of them upon all his creatures;
he knows the immediate causes of the least, and therefore the effects
of those causes. Since his knowledge is infinite, it must extend to
those things which are at the greatest distance from him, to those
which approach nearest to not bein ; since he did not want power
tq create, he cannot want understanding to know everything he hath
created, the dispositions, qualities, and virtues of the minutest crea~
ture. Nor is the understanding of God embased, and suffers a dimi~
nution by the knowledge of the vilest and most inconsiderable things.
Is it not an imperfection to be ignorant of the nature of anything ?
and can God have such a defect in his most perfect understandin ?
Is the understanding of man of an impurer alloy.by knowing tie
nature of the,rankest poisons? by understanding a ily, or a small
insect? or by considerin the deformity of a toad? Is it not gener~
ally counted a note of a dignified mind to be able to discourse of the

