`0N' GOD’S KNOWLEDGE. 423
nature of them? Was Solomon, who knew all from the cedar to the
hyssop, debased b so rich a present of wisdom from his Creator?
Is any glass detiledl by presenting a deformed image? Is there any-
thing more vile than the “imaginations which are only evil, and
continually ?” Doth not the mind of man descend to the mud of the
earth, play the adulterer or idolater with mean objects, suck in the
most unclean things? yet God knows these in all their circumstances,
in every appearance, inside and outside. Is there anything viler than
some thong ts of men? than some actions of men? their unclean beds
and gluttonous vomiting, and Luciferian pride? yet do not these fall
under the eye of God, in all their nakedness? 'Ihe Second Person’s
taking human nature, though it obscured, yet it did not disparage
the Deity, or bring any disvfrace to it. Is gold the worse for being
formed into the image of a hy? doth it not still retain the nobleness
ofthe metal? When men are despised for descendin to the knowl-
edge of mean and vile things, it is because they neglect the knowl-
edge of the greater, and sin in their inquiries after lesser: things, with
a neglect of that which concerns more the honor of God and the hap-
pinex of themselves; to be mbitious of such a knowledge, and care-
ess of that of more concern, is criminal and contemptible. But God
knows the greatest as well as the least; mean things are not known
by him to exclude the knowledge of the greater; nor are vile things
governed bv him to exclude the order of the better. The deformity
of objects known by God doth not deform him, nor detile him; he
doth not view them without himself; but within himself, wherein all
things in their ideas are beautiful and comely: our knowledge of 5
deformed thing is not a deforming of our understanding, but is beau-
tiful in the knowledge, though it be not in the object; nor is there
any fear that the understanding of God should become material by
knowing material things, any more than our understandings lose
their spiritualigy by knowing the nature of bodies ; it is to be
observed, there ore, that only those senses of men, as seeing, hearing,
smelling, which have those qualities for their objects that come near-
est the nature of spiritual things, as light, sounds, fragrant odors, are
ascribed to God in Scripture; not touching or tasting, which are
senses that are not exercised without a more immediate commerce
with gross matter; and the reason may be, because we should have
no gross thoughts of God, as if he were a. body, and made of matter,
like the things he knows. _
2. As he knows all creatures, so God knows all the actions of
creatures. He counts in articular all the ways of men. “ Doth he
not see all my ways, and) count all my steps” (Job xxxi. 4)? He
“tells” their “ wsnderings,” as if one by one (Ps. lvi. 8). His eyes
are upon all the ways of man, and he sees all his goings” (Job xxxiv.
21); a metaphor taken from men, when they look wistly, with fixed
eyes upon a thing, to view it in every circumstance, whence it comes,
whether it goes, to observe every little motion of it. God's eye is
not a wandering, but a Hxed eye; and the ways of man are not only
“before his eyes,” but he doth exactly “ponder them” (Prev. v. 21);
as one that will not be ignorant of the least mite in them, but weigh
and examine them by the standard of his law; he may as well know

