424 , _ cnamrocx' on 'ms xrramurss.
the motions of our members, 'as the hairs of our heads ;' thesmalleste
acti_ons before they be, whether civil, natural, or religious, fall under
his cognizance; what meaner than a man carrying a pitcher, yet our
Saviour foretels it (Luke xxii. 10); God knows not -only what men
do, but what they would have done, had he not restrained them;
what Abimelech would have doneto Sarah, had not God ut a bw
in his way (Gen. xx. BQ; what a man' that is taken awa in his youth
would have done, h he lived to a riper ; yea, he knows tho
most secret words as well as actions; the woari s ken by the king
of Israel in his bed-chamber, were revealed to hll)isha~(2 Kings vi.
12); and indeed, how can any action of man be concealed from (rod ?
Can we view the various actions of a heaip of ants, or a hive of bees
in a glass, without turning our eyes; an shall not~God behold the
actions of all men in the world, which are less than bees or ants in
his sight, and more visible to him than an ant-hill or bee-hive can
be to the acutest eye of man? ‘
3._ As God knows all the actions of creatmes, so he knows all the
thoughts of creatures. The thoughts are the most closeted acts of
man, hid from men and- angels, unless disclosed by some outward
expressions; but God descends into the depths and abysses of the
soul, discems the most inward contrivances; nothing is im netrable
to. him; the sun doth not so much enlighten the earth, as éliid under-
stands the heart; all things are as visible to him, as ilies and motes
enclosed in a body of transparent crystal; this man naturally allows
tp God. Men often speak to God by the motions of their minds and
secret ejaculations, which they would not do, if it were not naturally
implanted in them, that God knows all their inward motions; the
Scripture is plain and positive in this, “He tries the heart and the
reins” (Ps. vii. 9), as men, by the use of fire, discern the dressy and
purer parts of metals. The secret intentions and aims, the most
urking affections seated in the reins; he knows that which no man,
no angel, is able to know, which a man himself knows not, nor
makes any particular reflection upon; yea, “ he weighs the Spirit"
(Prov. xvi. 2); he exactly numbers all the devices and inclinations
of men, as men do every piece of coin they tell out ofa heap. “He
discerns the thou hts and intents of the heart” (Heb. iv. 12); all that
is in the mind, all that is in the affections, every stirring and ur-
pose; so that not one thought can be- withheld from him” (ljlob
xlii. 2); yea, “Hell and destruction are before him, much more then
the hearts of the children of men” (Prev. xv. 11); he works all
things in the bowels of the earth, and brings forth all things out of
that treasure, say some; but more naturally, God knows the whole
state of the dead, all the receptacles and graves of their bodies, all
the bodies of men consumed b the earth, or devoured by living
creatures; things that seem to he out of all -being; he knows the
thoughts of the devils and damned creatures, whom he hath cast out
of his care forever into the arms of his justice, never more to cast a
delightful glance towards them; not a secret in any soul in hell
(which he hath no need to know, because he shall not judge them by
any of the thoughts they now have, since they were condemned to
punishment) is hid "rom him; much more is he acquainted with the
~

