l ON eorrs KNOWLEDGE. - ~ 425
thoughts oi livin men, the counsels of whose “hearts are y et to be
manifested, in orier to their trial and censure; yea, he knows them
before they spring up into actual being (Ps. cxxxix. 2): “Thou un~
derstandest my thoughts afar off;” my thoughts, that is, every
thought; though- innumerable thoughts pass through me in a da f,
and that in the source and fountain, when it 'is yet in the womb,
before it is our thought; if he knows them before their existence;
before they can be pro erly called ours, ‘much more doth he know
them when they actuall) spring up in us: he knows the tendency
of them; where the bird, will light when it is in flight; he knows
them exactl , he is therefore called a “ discerner” or criticiser “of
the heart” (ldeb. iv. 12), as a critic discerns every letter, point, and
stocp; he is more intimate with us than o1u° souls with our bodies,
an hath more the possession of us than we have of ourselves; he
knows them hy an inspection into the heart, not by the mediation
of second causes, by the looks or gestures of men,'as men may dis-
cern the thoughts of one another. (1.) God discerns all good motions
of the mind and will. These he puts into men, and needs must God
know his own act; he knew the son of “Jeroboam to have some
good thing in him towards the Lord God of Israel” (1 Kings xiv.
13); and the inte 'ty of David and Hezekiah; the reest motions
of the will and agtions to him: “ Lord, thou knowest that I love
thee,” saith Peter (John xxi. 17). Love can be no more restrained!
than the will itsel can; a man may make another to grieve an
desire, but none can force another to love. ' (2.) God diseerns all the
evil motions ofthe mind and will; “ Every imagination of the heart”
(Gen. vi. 5); the vanity of “men’s thoughts" (Ps. xciv. ll); their
inward darkness, and deceitful disguises. No wonder that God, who
fashioned the heart, should understand the motions of it (Ps. xxxiii.
13, I5): “ He looks from heaven and beholds all the children of men;
he fashioneth their hearts alike, and considers all their works.”_
Doth any man make a watch, and yet be i orant of its motion?
Did God Hin away the key to this secret czgiinet, when he framed
it, and put og the power of unlocking it when he pleased? He did
not surely frame it in such a posture as that anything in it should
be hid from his eye; he did not fashion it to be privileged from his
government; which would follow if he were ignorant of what was
minted and coined in it. He could not be a Judge to punish men,
if the inward- frames and principles of men’s actions were concealed
from him; an outward action may glitter to an outward eye, yet the
secrets ring be a desire of ap lause, and not the fear and love of
God. if the inward frames eip the heart did lie covered from him
in the secret recesses of the heart; those plausible acts, which in re-
gard of their rinciples, would merit a unishment,~would meet with
a reward ; and) God should bestow happihess where he had denounced
misery. As without the knowledge of what is just, he cduld not be
9. wise Lawgiver, so without the knowledge of what is inwardly
committed, he could not be a righteous Ju ge: acts that are rotten
in the spring, might be judged good by the fair color and appear-
ance. his is the glory of (God at the last day, “to manifest the
secrets of all hearts’ (1 C01 iv. 5); and the prophet Jeremiah links

