426 CHARNOCK ON THE AITBIBUTIB.
the ower of judgin and the rero tive of tr in the hearts to o-
therp(Jer. xi. 20): “Lut thou,% Logril of hosts? tl§at judgest rigitf
eousl , that triest the reins and the heart ;” and (Jer. xvii. 10): “ I_
the lflbrd, search, the heart, I try the reins;” to what end? even to
“give every man according to is way, and according to the fruit
of his doings.” And, indeed, his binding up the whole law with
that command of not coveting, evideneeth that he will judge men
by the inward affections and frames of their hearts. Again, God
sustains the mind of man in every act of thinking; in him we have
not only the principle of life, but every motion, the motion of our
minds as well as of our members: “ In him we live and move," &,c.
(Acts xvii. 28). Since he supports the vi or of the faculty in every
act, can he be ignorant of those acts v/high spring from the faculty
to which he dot at that instant communicate power and abilityf
Now this knowledge of the thoughts of men is,
lst. An incommunicable property, belonging only to the Divine
understanding. Creatures, indeed, may know the thoughts of others
by divine revelation, but not bgsthemselves; no creature hath a ke
immediately to open the min of men, and see all that lodgeth
there; no creature can fathom the heart b the line of created knowl-
edge.” Devils may have a con_Lectural knowledge, and may guess
at them, by the acquaintance t ey have with the dil sition ana
constitution of men, and the images they behold in :hgh fancies;
and by some marks which an inward imagination may stamp upon
the brain, blood, animal spirits, face, &c. But the knowing the
thoughts merely as thought, without any impression by it, is a roy~
alty God appropriates to himself, as the main secret of his govern~
ment, and a perfection declarative of his Deity, as much as any else
(Jer. xvii. 9, 10): “The heart of man is desperately wicked, who
can know it?" yes, there is one, and but one, “ I, the Lord, Search
the heart, I tr the reins.” “ Man looks on the outward appearance,
but the Lord lboks upon the heart" (1 Sam. xvi. Q; where God is
distinguished by this perfection from all men w atsoever, others
ma know by revelation, as Elisha did what was in Gehazi’s heart
(2 §_ings, v. 26). But God knows a man more than any man knows
himself; what person upon earth understands the windings and turn-
ings of his own heart, what reserves it will have, what contrivances,
what inclinations? all which God knows exactly.
2d. God acquires no new knowledge of the thoughts and hearts
by the discovery of them in the actions He would then be but
equal in this part of knowledge to his creature; no man or angel
but may thus arrive to the knowledge of them; God were then ex-
cluded frorn an absolute dominion over the prime work of his lower
creation; he would have made a creature superior in this respect to
himself, upon whose will to discover, his knowledge of their inward
intentions should depend; and therefore when God is said to search
the heart, we must not understand it as if God were ignorant be-
fore, and was fain to make an exact scrutiny and inquiry, before he
attained what he desired to know; but God condescends to ourca a-
oity in the expression of his own knowledge, signifying that  
~ Daille, Serm. Pm. 1. p. asc.

