on sons KNOWLEDGE. 427
knowledge is as complete as any man’s knowledge can be of the de-'
signs of others, after he hath sifted them by a strict and thorough
examination, and wrung out a discovery of their intentions; that e
knows them as perfectly as if he had put them upon the rack, and
and forced them to make a discovery of their secret plottings. Nor
must we understand that in Gen. xxii 12, where God saith, after
Abraham had stretched out his hand to sacrifice his son, “Now I
know that thou fearest God,” as thouvh God was iglnorant of Abra-
ham's gracious disposition to him; did Abraham’s rawing his knife
furnish God with a new knowledge? no,,God knew Abraham’s pious
inclinations before (Gen. xviii. 19): “I know him, that he will com-
mand his children af`ter him,” &c. Knowledge is sometimes taken
for approbation; then the sense will be, Now I approve this fact as
a testimony of thy fear of me, since thy affection to thy Isaac is ex-
tinguished b the more powerful flame of affection to my will and
command; Iynow accebpt thee, and count thee a meet subject of my
choicast benefits: or, ow I know, that is, I have made known and
manifested the faith of Abraham to himself and to the world: thus
Paul uses the word know (1 Cor.   2(): “I have de rmined to
know nothing ;" that ls, to declare an teach nothi , to make
known nothing but Christ crucified: or else, Now I know, that is, I
have an evidence and experiment in this noble fact, that thou fearcst
me. God often condescends to our ca acity in s aking of himself
after the manner of men, as if he had) (as men di) known the in-
ward affections of others by their outward actions.
4. God knows all the evils and sins of creatures.   God knows
all sin. This follows upon the other. If he knows al the actions
and thoughts of creatures, he knows also all the sinfulness in those
acts and thoughts. This Zophar infers from God’s punishing men
(Job xi. 11); for he knowslvain man, he sees his wickedness also,
he knows every man, and sees the wickedness of every man; he
looks down from heaven, and beholds not only the Hlthy persons,
but what is filthy in them (Psal. xiv. 2, 3), all nations in the world,
and every man of every nation; none of their iniquity is hid from
his eyes; he searches Jerusalem with candles (Jer. xvi. 17). God
follows sinners step by step, with his eye, and will not leave search-
ing out till he hath taken them; a meta hor taken from one that
searches all chinks with a candle, that nofliing can be hid from him.
He knows it distinctly in all the parts of it, how an adulterer rises
out of his bed to commit uncleanness, what contrivances he had,
what ste s he took, every circumstance in the whole progress; not
only evil)in the bulk, but every one of the blacker spots upon it,
which may most aggravate it. If he did not know evil, how could
he permit it, order it, punish it, or ardon it? Doth he permit he
knows not what? order to his own holy ends what he is ignorant
of? punish or pardon that which he is uncertain whether it be a
crime or no? “ Cleanse me,” saith David, “ from my secret faults”
(Ps. xix. 12), secret in regard of others, secret in regard of himself '
how could God cleanse him from that whereof he was ignoranti
He knows sins before they are committed, much more when they
are in act; he foreknew the idolatry and apostacy of the Jews;

