428 - cnnznocx on rm: urrnmums.
what gods they would serve, in what measure they would prcrvoke
him, and violate his covenant (Deut. xxxi. 20, 21 ,; he knew Judas
sin long before Judas’ actual existence, foretelling it in the Psalms;
and Christ predicts it before he acted it. 'He sees sins future in his
own permittinguvlcpll; he sees sins present in his own supporting act.
As he knows t ` gs ossible to himself; because he ‘knows his own
pgwer, so 'he knows stings practicable by tlie creature, because he
ows the power and principles ofthe creatm~e.° This sentiment
of God is naturally written in the fears of sinners, upon lightning,
thunder, or some prodigious operation of God in the world; what IS
the language of them, but t at he sees their deeds, hears their
words, nows the inward sinfulncss of their hearts; that he doth
not only behold them as a mere spectator, but considers them as a
°ust ju ge. .And the poets sa that the sins of men leaped into
heaven, and were writ in parcginents of Jupiter,P scelus in ter-ram
geritur, in caelo seribilur: sin is acted on earth, and recorded in heaven.
God indeed doth not behold evil with the approving eye; he knows
it not with a practical knowledge to be the author of it, but with
a speculative nowledge, so as to understand the sinfhlness of it;
or a knowledge aimplzbzls intellvgentive, of simple intelligence, as he
pirmits -them, not positive? w' ls them; he knows them not with a
owledge of assent to t em, but dissent from them. Evil per-
tains to a dissenting' act of the mind, and an aversive act of the
will; and what though evil formerly taken, hath no distinct concep~
tion, because it is a privation; a defect hath no being, and all
knowledge is by the apprehension of some being; woul not this
lie as strongly against our own knowledge of sin? Sin is a priva-
tion of the rectitude due to an act; and who doubts man’s knowl-
edge of sin? by his knowing the act, he knows the deficiency of
the act; the subject of evil hath a bein ,and so hath a concep-
tion in the mind; that which hath no gbeing cannot'be known
by itself; or in itself; but will it follow that it cannot be known
by its contrary? as we know darkness to be a plivation of
light, and folly to be a privation of wisdom. God nows good
a b himself; because he is the sovereign good; is it strange then,
that he 'should know all evil, since all evil is in some natural good
(2.) The manner of God’s knowing evil is not so easilyknown.
And indeed, as we cannot comprehend the essence of God,‘though
it is easily intelligible that there is such a Being, so we can as little
comprehend the manner of God’s knowledge, though we cannot but
eonc ude' him to be an intelligent Being, a pure understanding,
knowing all things. .As God hath ahigher manner of being than
his creatures, so he hath another and higher manner of knowing;
and we can as li-ttle comprehend the manner of his knowing, as we
can the manner of his being. But as to the manner, doth not God
know his own law? and shall ‘he not know how much any action
comes short of his rule? he cannot know his own rule without
knowing all the deviations from it. He knows his own holiness, and
shall he not see how any action is contrary to the holiuessof his own
‘ Fotherby Atheoma, p. 132. I Eu Azoc Mr Orosa Anthol. Dec 1. opt 895. p. 10).

