on cor>'s KNOWLEDGE. 429
nature? Doth not God know evelgthin that is true? and is it not
true that this or that is evil? an .shag God be ignorant of any
truth? How doth God know that he cannot lie, but. by knowing
his own veracity? How doth God know that he cannot die, but by
knowing his own immutability? and by knowing those, he knows
what a he is, he knows what death is; so if sin never had been, if
no creature had ever been, God would have known what sin was,
because he knows his own holinws; because he knew what law was
fit to be appointed to his creatures if he should create them, and that
that law might be transgresscd by them. God knows all good, all
goodness in himself; he therefore hath a foundation in himself to
know all that comes short of that goodness, that is opposite to that
holiness: as if light were capable of understanding, it would know
darkness only by knowing itself; by knowing itself, it would know
what is contrar to itself! God knows all created goodness which
he hath planted' in the creature; he knows then all defects from this
goodness, what perfection an act is deprived of; e what is o posite to
that goodness, and that is evil. As ,we know sickness hy health,
discord by harmony, blindness by sight, because it is a privation of
Sight, whosoever knows one contrary knows the other; God knows
unrightwusness by the idea which he hath of righteousness, and
sees an act deprived of that rectitude and goodness which ought to
bein it; he knows evil because he knows the causes whence evil
proceedsnl A painter knows a picture of his own framing, and if
any one dashes any base color upon it, shall not he also t know that ?
God by his hand painted all creatures, im ressed upon man the fair
stam and color of his own image; the tfdvil defiles it; man daubs
it Both not God, that knows his own work, know how this piece
is become different from his work? ,Doth not God, that knows his
creatures’ gloodness, which himself was the fountain of, know the
change of t is goodness? Yea, he knew before, that the devil would
sow tares where he had sown wheat; _and therefore that controversy
of some in the schools, whether God knew evil by its op sition to
created or uncreated goodness, is needless. We may say (grid knows
sin as it is opposite to created goodness, yet he knows it radically
by his own goodness, because he knows the goodness he hath com-
municated to the creatine by his own essential oodness in himself
To conclude this head: The knowledge of sin doth not bespot the
holines of God’s nature; for the bare knowledge of acrime doth
not infect the mind of man with the filth and pollution of that crime,
for then ,every rnanthat knows an act of murder committed by an~
other, would, by that bare knowledge, be tainted with his sin; yea, and
a judge that condemns a malefactor, may as well condemn himself
il this were so: the knowledge of sins infects not the understandings
that knows them, but only the will that approves them., It is no
discredit to us to know evil, in order to pass a right judgment upon
it; so neither can it be to God.
Fourthly, God knows all future things, all thin to come. The
differences of time cannot hinder a knowledge of dll; things by him,
who is before time, above time, that is not ; measured by hours, or
» 1 Gunn, p. 246.

