430 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
days, or ears; if Goddid not know them, the hindrance mustbe
in himsellf, or in the things themselves, because they are things to
come: not in himself; if it did, it must arise from some impotency
in his own nature, and so we render him weak; or from an unwi-
lingness to know, and so we render him lazy, and an enemy to his
own perfection; for, simply considered, the knowledge of more
thin is a greater perfection than the knowledge of a few; and if
the isnowledge of a thing includes something of perfection, the iff-
norance of a. thing includes somethin of imperfection. The knonfl-
edge of future things is a greater perfection than not to know them,
an is accounted among men a great part of wisdom, which they call
foresight; it is then surely a greater perfection in God to know future
things, than to be ignorant of them. And would God rather have
something of im rfection than be possessor of all perfection?
Nor doth the hindilance lie 'in the things themselves, because their
futurition depends upon his will; for as nothing can actually be
without his will, giving it existence, so nothing can be future without
his will, desiffnin the futurity of it. Certainly if God knows all
things Eessibie, which he will not do, he must know all things future,
which e is not only able, but resolved to do, or resolved to permit.
God’s perfect knowledge of himself, that is, of his own infinite
power and concluding will, necessarily includes a foreknowledge of
what he is able to do, and what he will do. Again, if God doth not
know future thin , there was a time when God was ignorant of most
things in the world; for before the deluge he was more ignorant than
after; the more things were done in the world, the more knowledge
did~ accrue to God, and so the more perfection; then the understand
ing of God was not perfect from eternity, but in time; nay, is not
perfect yet, if he be ignorant of those things which are still to come
to pass; he must tarry for a perfection he wants, till those futurities
come to be in act, till those things which are to come, cease to be
future, and begin to be present. Either God knows them, or desires
to know them; if he desires to know them and doth not, there is
something wanting to him ; all desire speaks an absence of the ob-
'ect desired, and a sentiment of want in the person desiring: if he
doth not desire to know them, nav, if he doth not actual y know
them, it destroys all providence, all his government of affairs; for his
providence hath a concatenation of means with a prospect of som_e-
thing that is future: as in Joseph’s case, who was ut into the pit,
and sold to tie E yptians in order to his fixture adjvancement, and
the preservation §oth of his fhther and his envious brethren. If
God did not know all the future inclinations and actions of meu,
something mivht have been done by the will of Potiphar, or by the
free-will of Pharoah, whereby Jose h might have been cut short of
his advancement, and so God have been interrupted in the track and
method of his designed providences. He that hath decreed to gcévem
man for that end he hath designed him, knows all the means fore,
whereby he will govern him, and therefore hath a distinct and cer-
tain knowledge of all things; for a confused knowledge is an imsel'
fection in government; it is in this the infiniteness of his un er-
standing is more seen than in knowing things past or present; llll

