ON sons Kxownsnen. 431
are a dame of fire (Rev. i. 14 , in regard of the netrating virtue
dfefhem into things impenetrabie by any else. libemake it further
appear that God knows all things fixture, consider,
1. Everything which is the object of God’s knowledge without
himself was once only future. There was a moment when nothing
was in being but himself: he knew nothing actually ast, because
nothing was past; nothing actually present, because nothing had any
existence but himself; therefore only what was future. And why
not everything that is future now, as well as only what was future
and to come to pass just at the beginning of the creation? God
indeed knows everything as present, but the things themselves known
by him were not present, but future; the whole creation was once
future, or else it was from eternity; if it begun -in time, it was once
future in itself, else it could never have begun to be. Did not God
know what would be created by him, before it was created by him ?\’
Did he create he knew not what, and knew not before, what he
should create? Was he ignorant before he acted, and in his acting,
what his operation would tend to? or did he not know the nature
of things, and the ends of them, till he had produced them and saw
them in being? Creatures, then, did not arise from his knowledge,
but his knowledge from them; he did not then will that his creatures
should be, for' he had then willed what he knew not, and knew not
what he willed; they, therefore, must be known before the were
made, and not known because they were made; he knew them to
make them, and he did not make them to know them; By the same
rezson that he knew what creatures should be before they were, he
knows still what creatures shall be before they are ;' for all things
that are, were in God, not really in their own nature, but in him as
a cause; so the earth and heavens were in him, as a model is in the
mind of a workman, which is in his mind and soul, before it be
brought forth into outward act.
2. The predictions of future things evidence this. There is not a
pro hecy of any thingso come, but is a spark of his foreknowledge,
andp bears witness to t e truth of this assertion, in the unctual ac-
complishment of it; this is a thing challenged by Godp as his own
peculiar, wherein he surmounts al the idols that man’s inventions
l13V€ godded in the world §Isa. xli. 21, 22) : Let them bring them forth
(speaking of the idols) an show us what shall hap en, or declare us
things to come : show the things that are to come hereafter, that we
may know that you are gods. Such a. fore-knowledge of things to
come, is here ascribed to God by God himself] as a distinction of him
from all false gods; such a knowledge, that if any could prove that
they were possessors of, he would acknowledge them gods as well as
himself: “ that we may know that you are gods.” He uts his
Deity to stand or fall u n this account, and this should be the point
which should decide the controversy, whether he or the heathen
idols were the true God; the dispute is managed by this medium,-
He that knows things to come, is God; I know things to come, emo,
I am God ; the idols know not things to come, therefore they are not
gods; God submits the being of his Deity to this trial. If God know
' Petavius changed. ' Bradwsrd. lib. 8 cap. 14.

