432 cnsnuocx on :ms esrrnrsurns.
thin to come no more than the heathen idols, which were either
devils or men, he would be, in his own account, no more a God than
devils or men, no, more a God than the pagan idols he doth scoff at
for this defect. i If the heathen idolswere tothe stripped of their
deity for want of this- foreknowledge of _things to come, wouldnot
the true God also fall from the same cxoellencyiif he yvere defective
in knowled e? He would, in his own judgment, no more deserve
the title and character of a God than they. How could he reproach
them for that, if it were wanting in himself ? It cannot be under-
stood of future things in their causes, when the effects necessarily
arise from such causes, as light from the sun, and heat from the fire:
many of these men know ; more of them angels and devils know:
if God, therefore, had not a higher and farther knowledge than this,
he would not by this be proved to be God any more than angels and
devils, who know necessary effects in their causes. The devils, in-
deed, did redict some things in the heathen oracles ,; but God is
differenced) ffromthem here by the infiniteness of his knowled e, in
being able to predict things to come that they knew not, or t¢hin§
in their particularities, things that de ended on the liberty of man s
will, which the devils could lay no cliiim to a certain knowled fe oil
Were it only a conjectural knowledge that is here meant, the dievils
rn' ht answer, they can conjecture, and so their deity~was_ as good as
Gd§l's ; for, though God might know more things, and conjecture nearer
to what would be, yet still it would be but conjectural, and therefor:
not a higher kind of knowledge than what the devils might challen
How much, then, is God beholden ‘to the Socinians for denying 5;
knowledge of all future things to him, ufpon which here he puts the trial
of his Deity P God asserts his knowle ge of things to come, as a mani-
fest evidence of his Godhead ; those that deny, therefore, the argument
that proves it,,deny the conclusion too ; for this will necessarily follow
that if he be God, because he knows future things then he that doth not
know future things is not God; _and if God knows not future thin
but only _by conjecture, then there is no God, because a certain know?
edge, so as infallibly to predict things to come, is an inseparable per-
fection of the Deity: it was, therefore, well said of Austin, that it
was as high a. madness to deny God to be, as to deny him the fore-
knowledge of things to come. The whole prophetic part of Scripture
declares this perfection of God; every prophet’s candle was li fhted
at this torch ; they could not have this foreknowledge of themseéves;
why might not many other men have the same, insight, if it were
nature? It must be from some superior Agent; and all nations
owned rophecy as a beam from God,- a fruit of Divine illumina-
tion! }f‘rophccy must be totally expnnged if this be denied ; for the
subjects of prophecy are things future, and no man is properly a
prophet but in prediction. , N ow prediction is nothing but loretell
mg, and things foretold are not yet come, and the fqretelling of them
suplposeth them not to be yet, but that they shall be in time; several
sue i predictions`we have in Scripture, the event whereof hath been
certain. The years of famine in Egypt ibretold that he would order
second causes for bringing that judgment upon them ; the captivity
' Pucuvius said, Siqui quw eventnra. sunt provident, :equi parent, GelL lib. 14 Q I

