" 'ON sons xNowLsnorc. 433
'uflris people in Babylon, the callin of the Gentiles, the rejection of
the Jews Daniel’s .revelation of gNebuchadnezzar’s dream; that
prince relers to God- as the revealer of -secrets (Dan.   47). By the
same reasonthat he knows one thing future by himself, and by the
ininiteness of his knowledge before any causes of them appear, he
doth know all thin future.
3. Some future things are known by men; and we must allow God
| greater knowledge than any creature. Future things in their causes
may be known by angels and men, (as I said before); whosoever
knows necesary causes, and the etlicacy of them, may foretell the
effects; and when he sees the meeting and concurrence of several
causes together, he may pnesage what the consequent effect will be
of such a concurrence : so ph sicians foretel the progress of a disease,
the increase or diminution of? it by natural signs; and astronomers
foretel eclipses by their observationof the motion of heavenly bodies,
many years before they happen ;'= can they be hid from God, with
whom are the reasons of al things ?" An expert gardener, by know-
ingthe root in the de th of winter, can tell what flowers and what
trait it will bear, and the month when they will peep out their heads;
md shall not God much more, that knows the principles of all his
creatures, and is exactly privy to all their natures and qualities,
know what they will be, and what operations shall be from those
pirsciples ? Now, if God did know things only in theircauses, his
w edge would not be more excellent than the knowledge of
angels and men, though he might know more than they of the things
that will come to pass, from every cause singly, and from the con-
currence of many. Now, as God is more excellent in being than his
creature, so he is more excellent in the objects of his knowledge, and
the manner of his knowledge; well, then, shall a certain knowledge
of something futiue, and a con`ectural knowled e of man things,
he found among men? and shalll a determinate aid infallible knowl»
edge of things to come be found nowhere, in no being? If the con-
jecture of future things savours of ignorance, and God' knows them
only by conjecture, there is, then, no such thing in being as a perfect
intelligent Being, and so no God.
4; God knows his own decree and will, and therefore must needs
know all future thin If _ aigthing be future, or to come to ass,
it must be from itselgbr from od : not from itself, then it would be
independent and absolute: if it hath its futurity from God, then God
must know what he hath decreed to come to pass; those things that
are future, in necessary causes, God must know, because he willed
them to be causes of such effects; he, therefore, knows them, because
he knows what he willed. The knowledge of God cannot arise from
the things themselves, for then the knowledge 9f God would have a
cause without him; and knowledge, which is an eminent perfection,
would be conferred upon him by' his creatures. But as God sees
things possible in the glass of his own power, so he sees things future
_in the glass of his own will; in his effecting will, if he hath decreed
to produce them ; in his permitting will, as he hath decreed to suffer
lhem and dispose of them; nothing can pass out of the rank of
' Cusanus, 1 Fuller’s Pisgah, 1. 2. p. 281.
vol.. 1.-28

