434 csannocx ON 'rnn s'i'rnmU'ms.
things merely possible into the order of things future, before some
act of God’s will hath passed for its futuritioni It is not from the
iniiniteness of his own nature, simply considered, that God knows
things to be future ;= for as things are not future because God is in-
finite for then all possible thin should be future), so neither is any
thing nown to be future onl Iisecause God is infinite, but because
God hath decreed it; his declaration of things to come, is founded
upon his a pointment of thi to come! In Isaiah xliv. 7, it is
said, “ And) who, as I, shall ciilgls and declare it, since I a pointed the
ancient people, and the thin that are coming?”“ N othing is crea~
ted or ordered in the world git what God decreed to be created and
ordered. God knows his own decree, and therefore all things which
he hath decreed to exist in time; not the minutest part of the world
could have existed without his will, not an action can be done with~
out his will; as life, the principle, so motion, the fruit of that life, is
by and from God; as he decreed life to this or that thing, so he de-
creed motion as the effect of life, and decreed to exert his power in
concurring with them, for producing effects natural from sue causes;
for without such a conco1u°se they could not have acted anything, or
produced anything; and therefore as for natiual things, which we
call necessary causes, God foreseeing them all particularly in his own
decree, foresaw also all effects which must necessaril flow from them,
because such causes cannot but act when they are iyurnished with all
things necessary for action: he knows his own decrees, and therefore
necessarily knows what he hath decreed, or else we must say things
come to pass whether God will or no, or that he wills he knows not
what; but this cannot be, for “known unto God are all his works,
from the beginning! of the world” (Acts xv. 18{; Now this neces-
sarily flows from t at principle 'first laid down, t at God knows him~
self since nothing is future without God’s will; if God did not know
future things, he wlould not know his own will; for as things possi~
ble could not be known by him, unless he knew the fulness of his
own power, so things future could not be known by his understand-
ing, unless he knew the resolves of his own will. Thus the know l-
edgle of God differs from the knowledge of men ;‘= God’s knowledge
of is works precedes his works; man s knowledge of God’s works
follows his works, just as an arti’dcer’s knowledge of a watch, instru-
ment, or engine, which he would make, is before his making of it;
he knows the motion of it, and the reason of those motions before it
is made, because he knows what he hath determined to work; he
knows not those motions hom the consideration of them after they
were made, as the spectator doth, who, b viewing the instrument
after it is made, gains a knowledge from this sight and the considera»
tion of it, till he understands the reason of the whole; so we know
things from the consideration of them after we see them in being,
and therefore we know not future things: but God’s knowledge doth
not arise from things because they are, but because he wills them to
be; and therefore he knows everything that shall be, because it
, I Chequell. ' Coceei sum. Theol. p. 50. ' Ibid.
* Gnmnul in Aguin, Part I. Q, 14. cap. 8. p. !24.
° Maimonid. ore Nevoch, Part 8. cap. 21. pp. 898, 894.

