on eorrs xNowr.r:ner:. 435
cannot be without his will, as the Creator and maintainer of all
things; knowing his own substance, he lmows all his works.
5. If God did not know all future thin he would be mutable in
his knowledge. If he did not know all things that ever were or are
to be, there would be upon the ap arance of every new object, an
addition of light to his understandiiiig, and therefore such a change
in him as every new knowledge causes in the mind of a man, or as
the sun works in the world upon its rising every morning, scattering
the darkness that was upon the face of the earth; if he did not
know them before they came, he would gain a knowledge by them
when the came to ass, which he had not before they were effected;
his knowledge would be new according to the newness of the ob-
jects and multi lied according to the multitude of the objects. If
God did know things to come as rfectly as he knew things resent
and past, but knew those certainly, and the others doubtfully and
conjecturally, he would suffer some change, and acquire some per-
fection in his knowledge, when those future things should cease to
be future, and become present; for he would know it more perfectly
when it were present, than he did when it was future, and so there
would be a change from imperfection to a perfection; but God is
every way immutable. Besides, that perfection would not arise
from the nature of God, but from the existence and presence of the
thing; but who will aiiirm that God acquires an perfection of
knowledge from his creatures, any more than he dotli’ of being? he
would not then have that knowledge, andconse uently that perfec~
tion 'fiom eternity, as he ha,d.when he created (die world, and will
not have a full perfection of the knowledge of his creature till the
end of the world, nor of immortal souls, which will certainly act as
welias live to eternity; and so God never was, nor ever will bc,
perfect in knowledge; for when you have conceived millions of
years, wherein angels and souls live and act, there is still more com-
ing than you can conceive, wherein they will act. And if God be
always changing to eternity, from ignorance to knowledge, as those
acts come to be exerted by his creatures, he will not be perfect in
knowledge, no, not to eternity, but will always be changing from
one degree of knowledge to another; a very unworthy conceit to
entertain of the most blessed, perfect, and iniinite God! Hence,
then, it follows, that
( 1.) God forekuows all his creatures. All kinds which he deter-
mined to make; all particulars that should spring out of every spe-
cies; the time when they should come forth of the womb; the man-
ner how; “In thy Book all my members were written” (Ps. cxxxix.
16). Members is not in the Heb. whence some refer all, to all living
trwtures whatsoever, and all the parts of them which God did fore-
see: he knew the number of creatures with all their arts; they
were written in the book of his foreknowledge; the giuation of
them, how long they shall remain in being, and act u n the stage;
he knows their strength, the links of one cause withmanother, and
what will follow in al their circumstances, and the series and com»
binations of effects with their causes. The duration of everything
isforeknown, because determined (Job. xiv. 5); “seeing his days

