436 cmmrocx on rm: wmrsnrrs.
are determined, the-number of his months are with thee; thou hast
appointed his bounds, that he cannot pass ';” bounds are fixed, be-
yond which none shall reach; he speaks of days and months, not
of years, to give us notice of Gods particular foreknowledge of
everything, of every day, month, year, hour of a ma.n’s life.
(2.) All the acts of his creatures are foreknown bv him. All
natural acts, because he knows their causes; voluntary 'acts I shall
speak of afterwards.
(3.) This foreknowledge was certain. For it is an' unworthy no-
tion of God to ascribe to him a conjectural knowledge; if there
were only a conjectural knowledge, he could but conjecturally ibre-
tel anything; and then it is possxblethe events of things might be
contrary to his predictions; It would appear then that G were
deceived and mistaken, and then there could be no rule~ of trying
things, whether there were from God or no; for the rule God sets
down to discern his words fromthe words of false prophets, is the
event and certain accomplishment of what is predicted \Deut. xviii.
21) to that guestion, “ How shall we know whether God hath
spoken or no.” he answers, that “if the thing doth not come to
pass, the Lord hath not spoken.” If his knowledge of future things
were not certain, there were no stability in this rule, it would fall
to the ground: we never yet End God deceived in any prediction,
but the event did answer his forerevelation; his foreknowledge,
therefore, is certain and infallible. We cannot make God uncertain
in his knowledge, but we must conceive him fiuctuatin and waver-
ing in his will; but if his will be not yea and naygmt yea, his
knowledge is certain, because he doth certainly will and reso ve.
(4.) This foreknowledge was from eternity. Seeing he knows
things possible in his power, and things future in his will; if his
power and resolves were from eternity, his knowledge must be so
too, or else we must make him ignorant of his own power, and ig-
norant of his own will from etemity; and consequently not from
eternity blessed and perfect. His knowledge of possible things must
ruarxraparallel with his power, and his knowledge of future things run
p lel with his will. If he willed from eternity, he knew from
eternity what he willed; but that he did will from eternity, we must
ggant, unless we would render him changeable, and conceive him to
made in time of not willin , willing. The knowledge God hath
in time, was always one and the same' because his understanding is
his proper essence, and of an immutable nature! And indeed the
actual existence of a thing is not simply necessary to its being, per-
fectly known; we may see a thing that is past out of being, W en it
doth actually exist; and a carpenter ma now the house he is to
build, before it be built, by the model oil' it in his own mind; much
more we may conceive the same of God whose decrees were before
the foundation of the world ;° and to be betbre time was, and to be
from eternity, hath no diflierence. As God in his being exceeds all
oeginuing o time, so doth his knowledge all motions of time.
(5.) God foreknows all things as present with him from eternity.
'As he knows mutable things with an unmutable and firni knowledge,
" Gamaeh.inAquinQP\rtI.Q.l4. cap. 8. p. 124. * Eph.i.5.andinotherpl.\eal
I

