I
on eon‘s KNOWLEDGE. 487
ache knows future things with a present knowledge ;f not that the
things which are produced in time, were actually and really present
with him in their own beings &om eternity ; for then they could not
be produced in time; had the a real existenw, then they would
not be creatures, but God; and had they actual being, then they
could not be future, for future speaks a thing to come that is not et.
If things had been actually present with him, and yet future, they
had been made before they were made, and had a being before they
had a being; but the were all present to his knowledge as if they
were in actual being, because the reason of all things that were to
be made, was present with him. The reason of the will of God that
thev shall be, was ually eternal with him, wherein he- saw what,
and when, and howetlie would create things, how he would govern
them, to what ends he would direct them.¢- Thus all things are
assent to God’s knowledge, though in their own nature they may
past or future, not in esac realz, but in ease intelltyibild objectively,
not actually present;h for as the unchangeableness and infiniteness
of God’s knowledge of changeable and finite things, doth not make
the things he knows immutable and infinite, so neither doth the
eternity of his knowledge make them actually present with him
from eternit ; but all things are present to his understanding, be-
cause he hatliat once a view of all sucowsions of times; and his knowl-
edge of future things is as perfect as of present things, or what is
past; it is nota certain knowledge of present things, and an uncer-
tain knowledge of future, but his knowledge of one is as certain and
Unerring as his knowledge of the other ;i as a man that beholds a
circle with several lines from the centre, beholds the lines as they
ue joined in the centre, beholds them also as they are distant and
severed from one another, beholds them in their extent and in their
point all at once, though they may have a great distance from one
another. He saw from the beginning of time to the last minute of
Ry all things coming out of their causes, marching in their order ac-
cording to his own appointment; as a man may see a multitude of
luis, some creeping one way, some another, employed in several
husinemes for their winter Provision. The eye of God at once runs
throligh the whole circle o .time; as the eye of man upon a tower
R5 l the passengers at once, though some bfedpast, some under the
tower, some coming at a farther distance. “G ,” saith Job, “ looks
to the end of the earth, and sees under the whole heaven” (Job
Xxviii. 24); the knowledge of God is expressed by sight in Scrip-
l\l:l'¢, and futurity to-God is the same thing as distance to us; we can
vntha perspective-glass make things that are afar off a pear ,as if
they were near; and the sun, so many thousand miles distant from
Us, to zzppear as if it were at the end of the glass: why, then, should
fpture ngs be atso great a distance from God’s knowledge, when
tumgsso farfromusmaybe madeto approachsonear to us? God
considers all thintgls in his own simple knowledge, as if they were
llwacted; and 81%f0l‘8 some have chosen to call the knowledge
if thug to come, not prescience, or foreknowledge, but knowledge'
'Gerhard Exegeaeh- 9~<l0Deosed,18.p.803. |Bradward. lin a. ax 14.
' Bwdiesk. I Pugio Fidsi, Pu-tl. 10.
,~__,_
1

