438 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
because God sees all things in one instang scienzid nunquam dejicibnhi
ins.€ant12.e.* Upon this account, things that are to come, are set down
in Scripture as present, and sometimes as past (Isa. ix. 6) : “ Unto us a
child is born,” thou h not yet born; so of the sufferings of Christ
(Isa. liii. 4, &c.): “§e hath borne our griefs. he was wounded for
our transgressions, he was taken from prison,” &.c., not'shall be; and
(Ps. xxii. 18): “they part my garments among them,” as if it were
present; all to express the certainty of God’s foreknowledge, as if
things were actually present before im. ‘
(6.) This is proper to God, and incommunicable to any creature.
Nothing but what is eternal can know all things that are to come.
Suppose a creature might know things that are to come, alter he is
in being, he cannot know things simply as future, because there
were things future before he was in being. The devils know not
men‘s hearts, therefore cannot foretel their actions with any certainty;
they may indeed have a knowledge of some things to come, but it
is only conjectural, and often mistaken; as the devil was in his pre-
dictions among the heathen, and in his presage of “Job’s cursing
God to his face” u n his pressin calamities (Job i. 11). Some~
times, indeed, they hive a. certain lsnowledge of something future
by the revelation of God, when he uses them as instruments of his
vengeance, or for the trial of his people, as in the case of Job, when
he gave him a commission to strip him of his goods; or, as the
angels have, when he uses them as instruments of the deliverance
of his people.
(7.) 'l‘hough this be certain, that God foreknows all things and
actions, yet the manner of his knowing all things before they come,
is not so easily resolved. We must not, therefore, deny this per-
fection in God, because we understand not the manner how he hath
the knowledge of all things. It were unworthy for us to own no
more of God than we can perfectly conceive of him ; we should then
own no more of him than that he doth exist. “ Canst thou," saith
J ob, “ by searching, find out God? canst thou ind out the Almighty
unto perfection ?” (Job xi. 7). Do we not see things unknown to
inferior creatures, to be known to ourselves? Irrational creatures
do not apprehend the nature of a man, nor what we conceive of
them when we look upon them; nor do we know what they fancy
of us when they look wistly upon us; for ought as I know, we un-
derstand as little the manner of their imaginations, as they do of
ours; and shall we ascribe a darkness in God as to future things,
because we are ignorant of them, and of the manner how he should
know them ?l shall we doubt whether God doth certainly know
those things which we only conjecture? As our power is not the
measure of the power of God, so neither is our knowledge the judge
of the knowledge of God, no better nor so well as an irrational na~
ture can be the judge of our reason. Do we perfectly know the
manner how we know? shall we therefore deny that we know any-
thin ? We know we have such a faculty which we call under-
standing, but doth any man certainly know what it is? and because
he doth not, shall he deny that which is plain and evident to him?
l Boat. oonso‘at lib 5. proc. 6 ' Fieinun in Procl. up 91.

