ON cons KNOWLEDGE. 439
Because we cannot ascertain ourselves of the causes of the ebbin
and flowing of the sea, of the manner how minerals are engendered
in the earth, shall we therefore deny that which our eyes convince
us of? And this will be a reparation to the last thing.
Fifthly, God knows all Fhture contingencies, that is, God knows
all thinglthat shall accidentally ha pen, or, as we say, by chance;
and he ows all the free motions of)men’s wills that shall be to the
end of the world. Ifall things be open to him (Heb. iv. 13), then
all contingencies are, for they are in the number of thin ; and as,
according) to Christ’s speech, those things that are impossiide to man,
are pow le to God, so those things which are unknown to man, are
known to God; because of the infinite fulness and perfection of the
divine understanding. Let us see what a contingent is. That is
continvent which we commonly call accidental, as when a tile falls
suddezlly upon a man’s head as he is walking in the street; or when
one letting olf a musket at random shoots another he did not intend
to hit; such was that arrow whereby Ahab was killed, shot by a
soldier at a venture (1 Kings xxii. 39); this some call a mixed con»
rlngent, made up partly o necessity, and partly of accident; it is
necexary the bu let, when sent out of the gun, or arrow out of the
bow, should Hy and light somewhere; but it is an accident that it
hits this or that man, that was never intended by the archer. Other
things, as voluntary actions, are purely contingents, and have nothing
ot' necessity in them; all free actions that depend upon the will 0
man, whether to do, or not to do, are of this nature, because they
depend not upon a necessary cause, as burning doth upon the fire,
moistcning upon water, or as descent or falling down is necessary to
a heavy body; for those cannot in their own nature do otherwise;
but the other actions depend upon a free agent, able to turn to this
Or thattpoint, and determine himself as he pleasesl N ow we must
know, at what is accidental in regard of the creature, is not so in
regard of God; the manner of Ahab’s death was accidental, in re»
gani of the hand by which he was slain, but not in regard of God
who foretold his death, and foreknew the shot, and directed the ar-
IUW; God was not uncertain before of the manner of his fall, nor
hovered over the battle to watch for an opportunity to accomplish
its own prediction ; what may be or not be, in regardlof us, is cer-
Tam in regard of God; to imagine that what is accidental to us, is
S0 to God, is to measure God by our short line. How many events
following upon the results of princes in their counsels, seem to per-
SOHS, ignorant of those counsels, to be a haphazard, yet were not
contingencies to the prince and his assistants, but foreseen by him
B certainly to imue so as th ey do, which they knew before would
be the fruit of such causes and instruments they would knit together!
That may be necessary in regard of God’s foreknowled e, w ich is
rnerely accidental in regard of the natural disposition 0? the imme-
diate causes which do actually produce it; contingent in its own
nature, and in regard of us, but fixed in the knowledge of God.
One illustrates it by this similitude ;'“ a master sends two servants
W 0118 and the same place, two several ways, unknown to one an~
" Zandt.

