440 CHARNOGK ON THE smmnnrns.
other; they meet at the place which their master had appointed
them; their meeting is accidental to them, one knows not of the
other, but it was foreseen by the master that they should so meet;
and that in regard of them it would seem a mere accident, till they
came to explam the business to one another; both the necessity of
their meeting, in regard of their master’s order, and the accidental-
ness of it in regard of themselves, were in bath their circumstances
foreknown by the master that employed them. For the clearing of
this, take it in this method.
1. It is an unworthy conceit of God in any to exclude him from
the knowledge of thesethings.
(1.) It will be a strange contracting of him to allow him no greater
a knowledge than we have ourselves. Contingencies are known to
us when they come into act, and pam from futurit to realit ; and
when they are present to us, we can order our   accordingly;
shall we allow God no greater a measure of lmowledge than we
have, and make him as blind as ourselves, not to see things of that
nature before they come to pass? Shall God know them no more?
Shall we imagine God knows no otherwise than we know? and that
he doth, like us, stand gazing with admiration at events? man can
cocrigecture many things; is it fit to ascribe the same uncertainty to
G , as though he, as well as we, could have no amuranee till the
issue appear in the view of all? If God doth not certainly foreknow
them, e doth but conjecture them; but a conjectiual knowledge is
by no means to be fastened on God; for that is not knowledge, but
guess, and destroys a Deity by making him subject to mistake; for
e that only guesseth, may guess wrong; so that this is to make God
like ourselves, and_stri him of an universally acknowledged perfec-
tion of omniscience. X conjectural knowledge, saith one," is as un-
worthy of God as the creature is unworthy of omniscience. It is
certain man hath a liberty to act many things this or that way as he
pleases; to walk to this or that quarter, to speak or not to speak; to
o this or that thing, or not to do it; which way a man will certainly
determine himself, is unknown before to any creature, yea ohen at
the ‘present to himself, for he may be in suspense; but shall we
imagine this future determination of himself is concealed from God?
Those that deny God’s foreknowledge in such cases, must either say,
that God hath an opinion that a man will resolve rather this way
than that; but then if a man by his liberty determine himself con-
trary to the opinion of God, is not God t en deceived? and what
rational creature can own him for a God that can be deceived in
anything? or else they must say that God is at uncertainty, and sus-
pends his opinion without determining it any way; then he cannot
now free acts till they are done; he would then depend upon the
creature for his information; his knowledge would be every instant
increased., as things, he knew not before, came inte act; and since
them are every minute an innumerable multitude of various imagi
nations in the minds of men, there would be every minute an acces
lion of new knowledge to God which he had not before; besides,
this knowledge woul be mutable according to the wavering and
I Scrivenar.

