ON sons KNOWLEDGE. 441
weathercoek resolutions of men, one while standing to this point,
another while to that, if he depended upon the creature’s determina-
tion for his knowledge.
(2.) If the nee acts of men were unknown before to God, no 'man
can see how there can be any government of the world by him.
Such contingencies may happen, and such resolves of men’s free-wills
unknown to God, as may perplex his afihirs, and pint him upon new
counsels and methods for attaining those ends w ich he settled at
the first creation of things; if things happen which God knows not
efbefore, this must be the consequence; where there is no foresight,
there is no rovidence; things may ha pen so sudden, if God be
ignorant of tliem, that they may give a check to his intentions and
scheme of government, an put him upon changing the whole model
of it. How often doth a small intervening circumstance, unforeseen
gy man, dash in pieces a long meditate and well-formed design!
o govem necessary causes, as sun and stars, whose effects are nat-
ural and constant in themselves, is easy to be imagined; but how to
govern the world that consists of so many men of free-will, able to
etermine themselves to this or that, an which have no constancy
in themselves, as the sun and stars have, cannot be imagined; unless
we will allow in God as great a certainty of foreknowledge of the
designs and actions of men, as there is inconstancy in their resolves;
God must be altering the methods of his government ever day,
every hour, every minute, according to the determinations oiy men,
which are so various and changeable in the whole compass of the
world in the space of one minute; he must wait to see what the
counsels of men will be, before he could settle his own methods of
government; and so must govern the world according t/o their mu-
tability, and not according to any certainty in himself But his
counsel is stable in the midst of multitudes of free devices in the
heart of man (Prov. xix. 21), and knowing them all before, orders
them to be subservient to his own stable counsel. lf he cannot know
what to-morrow will bring forth in the mind of a man, how can he
certainly settle his own determination of governing him? His. de-
crees and resolves must be temporal, and arise pro 're nata, and he
must alway be in counsel what he should do u on every change of
men’s minds. This is an unworth conceit of) the infinite majesty
of heaven, to make his government depend upon the resolves of men,
rather than their resolves upon the desi of God.
2. It is therefore certain, that God dldth foreknew the free and
volunta acts of man. How could he else order his people to ask
of him ltiiings to come, in order to their deliverance, such things as
depended upon the will of man, if he foreknew not the motions of
their will (Isa. xlv. l1)?
(l.) Actions good or indifferent depending u on the libert of
man’s will as much as any whatsoever. Severailof these he hath
foretold; not only a person to build up Jerusalem was redicted by
liim, but the name of that person, Cyrus gen. xliv. 28 . What is
more contingent, or is more the effect of t e liberty o man’s will,
than the names of their children? Was not the destruction of the
Babylonish empire foretold, which Cyrus undertook, not by any

