Q42 cnmrrocx on 'run xrraranrms.
comdpulsion, but by a free inclination and resolve of his own will?
An was not the dismission of the Jews into their own country a
voluntary act in that conqueror? If you consider the liberty of
man’s will, might not Cyrus as well have continued their oke, as
have struck off their chains, and ke t them captive, as well as dis
missed them? Had it not been for   own interest, rather to have
strengthened the fetters of so turbulent a` ople, who being tenacious
of their reli 'on and laws diferent from gat professed by the whole
world, weregike to make disturbances more when they were linked in
a body in their own country, than when they were transplanted and
scattered into the several parts of his empire? It was in the power
of Cyrus (take him as a ma.n)to choose one or the other; his interest
invited him to continue their captivit , rather than nt their de-
liverance; yet God knew that he would willingly do this rather than
the other; he knew this which depended u n the will of Cyrus;
and why ma not an iniinite God foreknow Size free acts of all men,
as well as ofy one? If the liberty of C rus’ will was no hindrance
to God’s certain and infallible foreknowlhdge of it, how can the con-
tingency of any other thing be a hindrance to him? for there is the
same reason of one and all; and his government extends to every
village, every family, every rson, as well as tc kingdoms and na~
tions. So God foretold, by his prophet, not only the destruction of
Jeroboam’s altar, but the name of the person that should be the in-
strument of it (1 Kings   2), and this about 300 years before
J osiah’s birth. It is a wonder that none of the pious kin ' of J udah,
in detestation of idolatry, and hopes to recover again th; kingdom
of Israel, had in all that space named one of their sons by that name
of Josiah, in hopes that that ro hecy should be accomplished by
him; that Manasseh only should rio this, who was the greatest inu-
tator of Jeroboam’s idolatry among all the Jewish kings, and indeed
went beyond them; and had no mind to destroy in another kingdom
what he propagated in his own. What is freer than the imposition
of a name? yet this he foreknew, and this Josiah was Manassehh
son (2 Kin xxi. 26). Was there anything more voluntary than
for Pharachsto honor the butler by restoring him to his place, and
unish the baker by- hanging him on a gibbet? yet this was foretold
FGen. xl. 8). And were not all the voluntary acts of men, which
were the means of Jose h’s advancement, foreknown by God, as well
as his exaltation, whicli) was the end he aimed at by those means?
Many of these may be reckoned up. Can all the free acts of man
surmount the infimte capacity of the Divine understanding? If God
singles out one voluntary action in man as contingent as any, and
lying among a vast number of other designs and resolutions, both
antecedent and subseguent, why should he not know the whole mass
of men’s thoughts an actions, and pierce into all that the liberty of
man’s will can eifect? wh should e not know everyprain, as well
as one that lies in thc micilst of many of the same kind And since
the Scripture gives so lagge an account of contingentsnpredicted by
God, no man can certai y prove that anything is u oreknown to
him. It is as reasonable to think he knows every contingent., as
that he knows some that lie as much hid from the eye of any crea-

