ON cons KNOWLEDGE. 443
tme, since there is no more diiiicult to an infinite nnderstanding to
know all, than to know some.° Indeed, if we deny God’s fore-
knowledge ofthe voluntary actions of men, we must strike ourselves
off from the belief of scripture predictions that yet remain unaccom-
plished, and will be brought about by the vo untary engagements
of men, as the ruin of antichrist, &c. If God foreknows not the
secret motions of man’s will, how can he foretel them? if we stri
him of this perfection of aprescience, whfy should we believe a word
of scripture predictions? 1 the credit 0 the word of God is torn up
by the roots. If God were uncertain of such events, how can we
reconcile God’s declaration of them to his truth; and his demanding
our belief of them to his goodness? Were it good and righteous in
God to urge us to the belief of that he were uncertain of himself,
how could he be true in predicting things he were not sure of ? or
ood, in requiring credit to be given to that which might be false?
Ibis would necessaril follow, if God did not foreknow the motions
of men’s wills, whereby many of his predictions were fulfilled, and
some remain yet to be accomplished.
(2.) God foreknows the voluntary sinful motions of men’s wills. First,
God had foretold several of them. Were not all the minute sinful
circumstances about the death of our blessed Redeemer, as the pierc-
ing him, giving him gall to drink, foretold, as well as the not break
ing his bones, and parting his garments? What were those but the
free actions of men, which the did willingl without any constraint?
and those foretold by David, Isaiah, and other prophets; some above
athousand, some eight hundred, and some more, some fewer ears
before they came to pass; and the events punctually answered, the
£l’e;Pll€Sl€S. Many sinful acts of men, which depended upon their
will, have been fbretold. The Egyptians’ voluntary op ressing
Israel (Gen. xv. 13); Phara/oh’s hardening his heart against tlie voice
of Moses (Exod. iii. 19); that Isaiah’s message would be in vain to
the peo le (Isa. vi. 9); that the Israelites would be rebellious a.&er
Hoses’ death, and turn idolaters (Deut. xxxi. 16); Judas’ betrayin
of our Saviour, a voluntary action (John vi. uZt.); he was not forced
to do what he did, for he had some kind of repentance for it; and
not violence, but voluntariness falls under re entance. Second, His
truth had depended upon this foresight. get us consider that in
Gen. iv. 16, “But in the fourth generation they shall come hither
a.gain;” that is, the posterity of Abraham shall come into Canaan,
for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.P God makes a
promise to Abraham, of giving his posterity the land of Canaan,
not presently, but in the fourth generation; if the truth of God be
infa ible in the rformance of is promise, his understanding is as
infallible in the fbeiesi ht of the Amorites’ sin ; the fullness of their
inéranity was to precede the Israelites’ ossession. Did the truth of
G depend upon an uncertainty? did) he make the promise hand
over head (as we s:iy)? How could he, with any wisdom and truth,
_' The Stoics, that thought their souls to be some particle of God, Arroorrdnpara,
Estes pulled off from him, did conclude from thence that he knew all the motions ol
sir souls u hi| own mover, as things ouherent with him. Arrian Epictet. lib. 1. cup,
l4~ p. 641 _ P Vid. Rivet. in loc. oxerci. 86. p. 829

