444 CHARNOCK ON 'ms Amnmurss.
assure Israel of the possession of theland in the fourth eneration,
if he had not been sure that the Amorites would fill up the measuze
of their ini uities by that time? If Abraham had been a Socinian,
to deny Gods knowled e of the free acts of men, had he not a time
excuse for unbelief ? lghat would his reply have been to God ? Alas,
Lord, this is not a promise to be relied upon, the Amorites’ iniquity
depends upon the acts of their free will, and such thou canst have no
knowledge of; thou canst see no more than a likelihood of their in-
iquity being full, and therefore there is but a likelihood of thy per-
forming thy romise, and not a certaintyl Would not this be
judged not only a saucy, but a. blasphemous answer? And u n
these principles the truth of the most faithful God had been daslioed
to uncertainty and a peradventure. Third, God provided a. remedy
for man’s sin, and therefore foresaw the entrance of it into the world
by the fall of Adam. He had a decree before the foundation of
the world, to manifest his wisdom in the gospel by Jesus Christ, an
“eternal purpose in Jesus Christ” (Eph.   12, and a decree of
election past efore the foundation of the worl ;-a se eration of
some to redemption, and forgiveness of sin in the blood) of Christ,
in whom they were from eternit chosen, as well as in time accepted
in Christ (E h. i. 4, 6, 7), which is called a “purpose in himself”
gver, 9); had) not sin entered, there had been no occasion for the
eath of the Son of God, it being everywhere in Scripture laid upon
that score ;-a decree for the shedding of blood, supposed a decree
for the (permission of sin, and a certain foreknowledge of God, that
it woul be committed by man. An uncertainty of foreknowledge,
and a fixedness of purpose, are not consistent in a wise man, much
less in the onl wise God. God’s urpose to manifest his wisdom to
men and angels in this way mightllave been defeated, had God had
only a eonjectural foreknowled e of the fall of man; and all those
solemn purposes of displaying his perfections in those methods had
been to no purpose ;‘1 the provision of a remedy supposed a certaint
'of the disease. If a sparrow fall not tothe und without the wig
of God, how much less could such a deploraild ruin fall upon man-
kind, without God’s will permitting it, and his knowledge toreseeing
it? It is not hard to conceive how God might foreknow it 7' he in-
deed decreed to create man in an excellent state ; the goodness of
God could not but furnish him with a power to stand; yet in his
wisdom he mi ht foresee that the devil would be envious to man’s
happiness, and would, out of envy, attempt his subversion. As
Go knew of what temper the faculties were he had endued man
with, and how far they were able to endure the assaults of a tempta-
tion, so he also foreknew the grand subt/elties of Satan, how he would
lay his mine, and to what point he would drive his temptation ; how he
Would propose and manage it, and direct his batter against the sensi-
tive appetite, and assault the weakest part of the ihrt; might he not
foresee that the eiicacy of the ,temptation would exceed the measure
of the resistance ; cannot God know how far the malice of Satan
would extend, what shots he would, according to his nature, use, how
high he would charge his temptation without his powerful restraint,
‘I Mum. cout. Volkal. lib 1. cap. 24. p. 848. ' Amyrald. de Prsedostin. cap. 6.

