os oon‘s xsownsnes. 445
as well as an engineer judge how many shots of a cannon will make
a breach in a town, and how many casks of powder will blow u a
fortrem, who never yet built the one, nor founded the other? l)Ve
may easily conclude God could not be deceived in the judgment of
the issue and event, since he knew how far he would let Satan loose,
how far he would permit man to act; and since he dives to the bot-
tom of the nature of all things, he foresaw that Adam was endued
with an ability to stand; as he foresaw that Benhadad might natu-
rally recover of his disease; but he foresaw also that Adam would
sink under the allurements of the temptation, as he :foresaw that
Hazael would let Benhadad live (2 Kings viii. 10). Now since the
whole race of mankind lies in corruption, and is subject to the
power of the devil (1 John iii. 18), magnet God, that knows that
corruption in every man’s nature, an the force of every man’ 
spirit, and what every particular nature will incline him to upon
such objects propose to him, and what the reasons of the temp-
tation will be, know also the issues? is there any ditliculty in
God's foreknowing this, since man knowing the nature of one
he is well acquainted with, can conclude what sentiments he will
have, and how he will behave himself upon presenting this or
that object to him? If a man that understands the disposi-
tion of his child or servant, knows before what he will do upon
such an occasion, may not God much more, who knows the inclina-
tions of all his creatures, and from eternity run with his e es over
All the works he intended? Our wills are in the number oiy causes;
and since God knows our wills, as causes, better than we do our-
selves, why should he be ignorant of the effects? God determines
In give grace to such a man, not to give it to another, but leave him
to imseli; and suffer such temptations to assault him; now God
knowing the corruption of man in the whole mass, and in every part
of it, is it not easy or him to foreknow what the future actions ofthe
will will be, when the tinder and fire meet together, and how such
a man will determine himself, both us to the substance and manner
of the action? Is it not easy for him to know how a corrupted
wmper and a temptation will suit? God is exactly pri? to all the
ill in the hearts of men, and what principles they will ave, before
eyhave a being. He “ knows their thoughts afar off” (Ps. cxxxix.
2), as far off as eternity, as some explain the words, and thoughts
are as voluntary as anything; he knows the power and inclinations
of men in the order of second causes; he understands the corrup-
tion of men, as well as “the poison of dragons, and the venom of
asps ;” this is “laid up in store with him, and sealed among his trea-
sures" (Deut. xxxii. 33, 34): among the treasures of his foreknowl-
edge, sa some. What was the cruelty of Hazael, but a free act?
yet Gody knew the frame of his heart, and what acts of murder and
oppression would spxring from that bitter fountain, before Hazael had
conceived them in imself (2 Kings viii. 12), as a man that knows
the minerals through which the waters pass, may know what relish they
will have before they appear above the earth, so our Saviour knew how
Peter would deny him; he knew what ctuantity of powder would
lerve for such a battery, in what measure e would let loose Satan,

