446 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
how far he would leave the reins in Peter's hands, and then the isue
might easil be known; and so in every act of man, God knowsin his
own will what measure of grace he wil give, to determine the will tc
good, and what measure of grace he will withdraw from such a pcrson,
or not give to him; and, consequently, how far such a person will fall
or not. God knows the inclinations of the creature; he knows his
own permissions, what degrees of grace he will either allow him, or
keep from him, according to whic will be the degree of his sin.
This ma in some measure hel our conceptions in this, though, as
was saidy before, the manner ofpGod’s foreknowledge is not so easily
ex licable.
Ei.) God’s foreknowledge of man’s voluntary actions doth not
necessitate the will of man. The foreknowlcd e of God is not
deceived, nor the liberty of man’s will diminiied. I shall not
trouble ou with any school distinctions, but be as plain as I can,
laying dybwn several proapositions in this case. _
Prop. I. It is certain l necessity doth not take away liberty, in-
deed a compulsive necessit takes away liberty, but a necessity of
irnmutability removes not liberty from God; why should, then,a
necessit of infallibility, in God remove liberty from the creature?
God did’ necessarily create the world, because he decreed it; vet
h°eely, because his will from eternity stood to it, he freely decreed it
and freely created it, as the a ostle saith in regard of God’s decrees,
" Who hath been his counsellor” (Rom. xi. 34)? so in regard of his
actions I may say, Who hath been his compeller? he free y decreed,
and he free y created. Jesus Christ necessarily took our flesh,
because he had covenanted with God so to do, yet he acted freely
and voluntarily according to that covenant, otherwise his death had
not been eiiicacious for us. A good man doth naturally, necessarily,
love his children, yet voluntarily: it is part of the happiness of
the blessed to love God unchangeably, yet freely, for it would not
be their happiness if it were done by compulsion. What is done
by force cannot be called felicity, because there is no delight or
complacency in it; and, though the blessed love God freely, yet, if
there were a possibilit of change, it would not be their happiness,
their blessedness would be damped by their fear of falling from
this love, and consequentl from their neamw to God, in whom
their ha_piness consists: god foreknows that they will love him
forever, but are the therefore compelled forever to love him? If
there were such a kind of constraint, heaven would be rendered
burdensome to them, and so no heaven. Again, God’s foreknowl-
edge of what he will do, doth not necessitate him to do: he fore»
knew that he would create a world, yet he freely created a world.
God’s foreknowledge doth not necessitate himself; why should it
necessitate us more than himself? We may instance in ourselves:
when we will a thing, we necessarily use our faculty of will; and
when we freely will any thing, it is necessary that we freely will;
but this necessity doth not exclude, but include, liberty; or, more
plainly, when a man writes or speaks, whilst he writes or speaks,
those actions are necessary, because to speak and be silent, to write
andnot to write, at the same time, are imposible; yet our writing

