on eorvs xivownsnsm. 447
or speaking doth not take away the power not to write or to be
silent at that time if a man would be so; for he might have chose
whether he would have spoke or writ. So there is a necessity of
such actions of man, which God foresees; that is, a necessity of
infallibility, because God cannot be deceived, but not a. coactive
necessity, as if they were compelled by God to act thus or thus.
Prop. II. No man can say in any of his voluntary actions that
he ever found any force upon him. When any of us have done
anything accordin to our wills, can we say we could not have done
the contrar to it? were we determined to it in our own intrinsic
nature, or did we not determine ourselves? did we not act either
according to our reason, or according to outward allurements? did
we find anything without us, or within us, that did force our wills
to the embracing this or that? Whatever action you do, you do
it because you judge it fit to be done, or because you will do it.
What, though God foresaw that you would do so, and that you
would do this or that, did you feel any force upon you? did you
not act according to your nature? God foresees that you will
eat or walk at such a time; do you find anything that moves you
to eat, but your own appetite? or to walk, but your own reason and
will? If prescience had imposed an necessity upon man, should
we not probably have found some kind of plea from it in the
mouth of Adam? he knew as much as any man ever since knew
of the nature of God, as discoverable in creation; he could not in
innocence fancy an ignorant God, a. God that knew nothing of future
things; he could not be so ignorant of his own action, but he must
have erceived a force upon his will, had there been any; had he
thought that God’s prescience -imposed any necessity upon him, he
would not have omitted the plea, especially when he was so daring
as to charge the providence of God in the gift of the woman to him,
to be the cause of his crime (Gen. iii. 12.) How come his posterity
to invent new char es against God, which their father Adam never
thought of, who had more knowledge than all of them? He could
find no cause of his sin but the liberty of his own will; he charges
it, not upon any necessity from the devil, or any necessity from
God; nor doth he allege the gift of the woman as a necessary
cause of his sin, but an occasion of it, by giving the fruit to him.
Judas knew that our Saviour did forcknow his treachery, for he had
told him of it in the hearing of his disciples (John xiii. 21--26%,
yet he never charged the necessit of his crime upon the foreknow -
edge of his Master; if Judas haf? not done it freely, he had had no
reason to repent of it; his repentance justifies Christ from imposing
any necessity upon him by that foreknowledge. No man acts any-
thing, but he can give an account,of the motives of his action; he
cannot father it upon a blind necessity; the will cannot be com-
pelled, for then it would cease to be the will: God doth not root up
the foundations of nature, or change the order of it, and make
men unable to act like men, that is, as free agents. God foreknows
the actions of irrational creatures; this concludes no violence upon
their nature, for we find their actions to be according to t eir
nature, and spontaneous.

