448 cmsuocx ON 'rum arrnmurns.
Prop. III. God's foreknowledge is not, simply considered, the
cause of anything. It puts nothing into things, but only beholds
them as present, and arising from their proper causes. The knowl-
edge of God is not the principle of t ings, or the cause of their
existence, but directive of the, action; nothin is because God
knows it, but because God wills it, either positively or permisaively;
God knows all things possible; yet, because God .knows them they
are not brought into actual existence, but remain still only as
things possib e; knowledge onl apprehends a thing, but acts
.nothing; it is the rule of acting, gut not the cause of acting; the
will is the immediate principle, and the power the immediate cause;
to know a thing is not to do a thing, for then we may be said to do
everything that we know: but every man knows those things which
he never did, nor never will do; knowledge in itself is an appre-
hension of a thing, and is not the cause of it. A spectator of a
thing is not the cause of that thin which he sees, that is, heis not
the cause of it, as he beholds it. gWe see a nian write, we know
before that he will write at such a time; but this foreknowledge is
not the cause of his writing. We see a man walk, but our vision
of him brings no necessity of walking upon him; he was free to
walk or not to walk' We foreknow- that death will seize upon all
men, we foreknow that the seasons of the year will succeed one
another, yet is not our foreknowledge the cause of this succession
of spring alter winter, or of the death of all men, or any man?
We see one man fighting with another; our si ht is not' the cause
of that contest, but some quarrel among themse¥ves, exciting their
own passions. As the knowledge of present things imposeth no
neoemit upon them while they are acting, and present, so the
knowledge of future things imposeth no necessity upon them
while the are coming. We are certain there will be men in
the worldy to~morrow, and that the sea will ebb and flow; but is
this knowledge of ours the cause that those things will be so?
I know that the sun will rise to-morrow, it is true that it shall
rise; but it is not true that my foreknowledge makes it to rise. If
a physician prognosticates, upon seeing the intemperauces and
debaucheries of men, that they will fall into such a distemper, is his
prognostication any cause of their disease, or of the sharpness of
any symptoms attending it? The prophet foretold the cruelty of
Hazael before he committed it; but who will say that the rophet
was the cause of his commission of that evil? And thus the tore-
knowledge of God takes not away the liberty of man’s will, no
more than a foreknowledge that we have of anv man’s actions takes
away his liberty. We may upon our knowledge of the temper of
a man, certainly foreknow, that if he falls into such company, and
get among his cups, he will be drunk; but is this foreknowledge
the cause that he is drunk? No; the cause is the liberty of his
own will, and not resisting the temptation. God purposes to leave
such a man to himself and his own ways; and man being so leh,
God foreknows what will be done b him according to that corrupt
nature which is in him; though the decree of God of leaving s
' Rawley of the World, lib. i. cap. l, sec. 12.

