on cons mzownsncs. 449
mmtothe liberty of his own will be certain, yet the liberty of
l1II!l'S_Wlll as thus left, is the cause of all the extravagances he doth
commit. Supgose Adam had stood, would not God'certainly have
foreseen that e would have stood? yet it would have been con-
cluded that Adam had stood, not by any necesség of God’s fore-
knowledge, but by the libert of his own will. hy should then
the foreknowledge of God add more necessity to his falling than to
his standing? And though it'be said _sometimes in Seri ture, that
suchathing was done “that the Scripture might be fulfilled,” as
John xii. 38, “ that the saving of Esais might be fulfilled, Lord, who
hath believed our report `?” the word that doth not infer that the
prediction of the prophet was the cause of the Jews’ belief, but in-
ers this, that the prediction was manifested to be true by their
unbelief, and the event answered the prediction; this prediction
was not the cause of their sin, but their foreseen sin was the cause
Gi this prediction; and so the particle that is taken (Ps. li. 6),
“Against thee, thee only have I sinned, that thou mightest be jl1SlS1°
fled," llc.; the justifying God was not the end and intent of the sin,
but the event of it upon his acknowledgment!
Prop. IV. God foreknows things, because they will come to pass;
burthings are not future, because God knows them. Foreknow-
ifdge presupposeth the object which is foreknown; a thing that is
towme to pass is the object of the Divine knowledge, but not the
mine of the act of divine knowledge; and though the foreknowledge
ti God doth in eternity precede the actual presence of a thing which
fsforeseen as future, yet the future thing, in regard of its fiiturity
Hsetemal as the foreknowledge of God: as the voice is uttered
before it be heard, and a thing is visible before it be seen, and a
dllllg knowable before it be known. But°how comes it to be know-
ilie to God? it must be answered, either in the power of God as a
llllnipomible, or in the will of God as a thing future; he 'dist willed,
md en knew what he willed; he knew what he willed to e&`ec§
&Hd_he knew what he willed to permit ;‘ as he willed the death o
Cllnst by a determinate counsel, and willedthe permission of the
Jew`s sin, and the ordering of the malice of their nature to that end
(iflS_ii. 22). God decrees to make a rational creature, and to gov-
Cm him by 8 law; God decrees not to hinder this rational creature
50111   his law; and God foresees that what he would
wt hinder, woul come to Man did not sin because God fore-
HW him; but God foresawgiiri. to sin, because man would sin. If
Adam and other men would have acted otherwise, God would have
ffmfknown that they would have acted well; God foresaw our ac~
@9115 because they would so come to pass b the motion of our free-
Wll which he would permit, which he would concur with, which he
would order to his own holy and lorious ends, for the manifestation
°l\l§t perfection of his nature. Ig I see a man lie in a sink, no ne-
Uwltv is inferred upon him from my sight to lie in that filth lace
buttiwre is a necessity inferred by him that lies there, that Iysiiould
*thin in that condition if I pass by, and cast my eye that way.
P1'vp.V. God did not only foreknow our actions, but the manner
vo 29 ' Rivet, in ln. liii. I. p. IG. _
I. r.--
¢

