450 onmnocx ON 'rss mrrnmcrns.
of our antions. That is, he did not only know that we would do
such actions, but that we would do them reely; he foresaw that the
will would freely determine itself to this or that; the knowledge of
God takes not away the nature of things; though God knows pos-
sible things, yet they remain in the nature of possibility; and though
God knows contingent things, yet they remain in the nature of con-
tingencies; and though Go knows free agents, yet they remain in
the nature of liberty. God did not foreknow the actions of man, as
necessary, but as free; so that libert is rather established by this
foreknowledge, than removed. God did not foreknow that Adam had
not a power to stand, or that any man hath not ifower to omit such a
sinful action, but that he woul not omit it. an hath a power to
do otherwise than that which God foreknows he will do. Adam
was not determined by any inward necessity to fall, nor any man
by any inward necessity to commit this or that particular sin;
but God foresaw that he would fall, and fall freely ; for he saw
the whole circle of means and causes whereby such and such ac-
tions should be roduced, and can be no more ignorant of the
motions of our wills, and the manner of them, than an artiiicer can
be ignorant of the motions of his watch, and how far the spring
will let down the string in the space of an hour; he sees all causes
leading to such events in their whole order, and how the free»will of
man will comply with this, or refuse that; he changes not the man~
ner of the creature’s operation, whatsoever it be.
Prop. VI. But what if the foreknowledge of God, and the liberty
of the will, cannot be fully reconciled b man? shall we therefore
deny a perfection in God to support a ligerty in ourselves? Shall
we rather fasten ignorance upon God, and accuse him of blindness,
to maintain our liberty? That God doth foreknow everything. and
et that there is liberty in the rational creature, are both certain;
but how fully to reconcile them, may surmount the understanding
of man. Some truths the disciples were not capable of bearing in
the days of Christ; and several truths our understandings cannot
reach as long as the world doth last; yet, in the mean time, we must,
on the one hand, take heed of conceiving Godignorant, and on the
other hand, of imagining the creature necessitated; the one will ren-
der God imperfect, and the other will seem to render him unjust, in
punishing man for that sin which he could not avoid, but was brou ht
into by a fatal necessity. God is suiiicient to render a reason of liis
own proceedings, and clear up all at the day of judgment; it is a
part of rnan’s curiosity, since the fall, to be prying into Grod’s secrets,
things too high for hun ; whereby he singes his own wings, and con
founds his own understanding. t is a cursed affectation that runs
in the blood of Adam’s posterity, to know as God, though our iirst
father smarted and ruined his posterity in that attempt; the ways
and knowledge of God are as much above our thoughts and concep-
tions as the heavens are above the earth (Isa. lv. 9),“ and so sublime,
that we cannot comprehend them in their true and just greatness;
his desi s are so mysterious, and the ways of his conduct so pm-
found, silat it is not possible to dive into them. The force of our
' Daille, Melnng. Part II. pp. 712, 725.
4

