on GoD’s KNOWLEDGE. 451
understandings is below his infinite wisdom, and therefore we should
adore him with an humble astonishment, and cry out with the apos-
tle (Rom. xi. 352: “O the depth of the riches of the wisdom and
knowledge of odl how unsearchable are his judgments, and his
ways past finding out l” Whenever we meet with depths that we
cannot fathom, let us remember that he is God, and we his creatures;
and not be guilty of so great extravagance, as to think that a sub-
ject can pierce into all the secrets of a prince, or a work understand
all the operations of the artificer. Let us only resolve not to fasten
anything on God that is unworthy of the perfection of his nature,
and dishonorable to the glory of his majesty; nor imagine that we
can ever step out of the rank of creatures to the glory of the Deity,
to understand fully everything in his nature. So much for the sec-
ond ueral, what God knows.
U? The third is, how God knows all things. As it is necessary
we should conceive God to be an understanding being, else he could
not be God, so we must conceive his understanding to be infinitely
more pure and perfect than ours in the act of it, else we liken him
to ourselves, and debase him as low as his footstoolf As among
creatures there are degrees of being and perfection, lants above
earth and sand, because they have a power of growth, beasts above
plants, because to their power of growth there is an addition of ex-
cellency of sense, rational creatures above beasts, because to sense
there is added the dignity 'of reason. The understanding of man is
more noble than all the vegetative power of plants, or the sensative
power of beasts: God therefore must be ininitely more excellent in
is understanding, and therefore in the manner of it. As man dif-
fers from a beast in regard of his knowledge, so doth God also from
man, in regard of his knowledge. As God therefore is in being and
perfection, infinitely more above a man than a man is above a beast,
the manner of his knowledge must be infinitely more above a man’s
knowledge, than the knowledge of a man is above that of a beast;
our understanding can clasp an object in a moment that is at a great
distance from our sense; our eye, by one elevated motion, can view
the heavens; the manner of God’s understanding must be uncon-
ceivably above our glimmerings; as the manner o his being is infi-
nitely more erfect than all beings, so must the manner of his un-
derstandinggeinfinitel more ertectthan all created understandingsy
Indeed, the manner ofyGod’s knowledge can no more be known by
us than his essence can be known by us; and the same incapacity in
man, which renders him unable to comprehend the bein of God,
renders him as unable to comprehend the manner of Gods under-
standing. As there is a vast distance between the essence of God
and our beings, so there is between the thoughts of God and our
thoughts ; the heavens are not so much higher than the earth, as the
thoughts of God are above the thoughts of men, yea, and of the high-
est an 1 (Isa. lv. 8, 9), yet though We know not the manner of
Gcd’s fnowledge, we know that he knows; as though we know not
the infiniteness of God, yet we know that he is infinite. It is God’|
' Maxim Tvrius. Dissert. 1. pp. 9, 10.
I Maimonides More Nevochim. Part III. c. 20. pp. 291-298.

