452 CHARNOCK ON 'ma srrnrsurns.
sole prerogative to know himself, what he is; and it is ecyually his
prerogative to know how he knows; the manner of Gods knowl-
edge therefore must be considered by us as freetfrom those im riec-
tions our knowledge is encumbered with. In general, Godw doth
necessarily know all things; he is necessarily omnipresent, because
of the immensity of his essence; so he is necessarily omniscient, be-
cause of the infiniteness of his understanding. It is no more at the
liberty of his will, whether he will know all things, than whether he
will be able to create all things; it is no more at the liberty of his
will, whether he will be omniscient, than whether he will be holy ;_
he can as little be ignorant, as he can be impure; he knows not all
things, because he will know them, but because it is essential to his
nature to know them. In articular,
Prop. I. God knows byliis own essence; that is, he sees the na-
ture of things in the ideas of his own mind, and the events of things
in the decrees of his own will; he knows them not by viewing the
things, but by viewing himself; his own essence is the mirror and
book, wherein he beholds all things that he doth ordain, dispose and
execute; and so he knows all things in their first and original cause;
which is no other than his own essence willing, and his own emence
executing what he wills; he knows them in his power, as the phys»
ical princi le; in his will, as the moral principle of things,`as some
spea _ If; borrows not the knowledge of creatures from the crea-
tures, nor depends upon them for means of understanding, as we
poor worms do, who are beholden to the objects abroad to assist us
with images of thin and to our senses to convey them into our
minds; God would an acquire a perfection from those thin which
are below himself, and an excellency from those things wiltlxich are
vile; his knowledge would not precede the being of the creatures,
but the creatures would be before. the act of his knowledge. If he
understood by images drawn from the creatures, as we do, there
would be something in God which is not God, viz. the images of
things drawn from outward objects: God would then depend upon
creatures for that which is more noble than a bare bein ; for to be
understanding, ‘is more excellent than barely to be. Besides, if God’S
knowledge of his creatures were derived from the creatures by the
impression of anything upon him, as there is upon us, be could not
know from eternity, because 5-om eternit there was no actual exist
ence of anything but himself; and theretbre there could not be any
images shot out from anything, because there was not angthing in
being but God; as there is no principle of beingto anything ut by 1118
essence, so there is no principle of the knowledge of anything by
himself but his essence; if the knowledge of God were distinct rom
his essence, his knowledge were not eternal, because there is nothing
eternal but his essence. His understandin is not a faculty in him
as it is in us, but the same with his essence, because of the simplicity
of his nature; God is not made up of various parts, one distinct from
another, as we arc, and therefore doth not understand by a art Of
himself, but by himself; so that to be, and to understand: is the
same with God; his essence is not one thing, and the wer whereby
he understands another; he would then be eompoundgd, and not be

