ON GOD‘S KNOWLEDGE. 453
the most simple being. This is also necessary for the perfection of
God; for the more perfect and noble the way and manner of know-
ing is, the more perfect and noble is the knowledge. The perfection
of knowledge depends u n the excellency of the medium whereby
we know. As a knowledge by reason, is a more noble way of
knowing than knowledge by sense; so it is more excellent for God to
know by his essence, than by anything without him, anything mixed
with him; the first would render him dependent, and the other
would demolish his simplicity. Again, the natures of all things are
contained in God, not formally; for then the nature of the creatures
would be God; but eminently, “He that planted the ear, shall he not
hear? he that formed the e e, shall he not see ?” (Ps. xciv. 9.) He
hath in himself eminently tile beauty, perfection, life and vigor of all
creatures; he created nothing contrary t/o himself; but everything
with some footste of himself in them; he could not have pro-
nounced them good? as he did, had there been anything in them con-
trary to his own goodness; and therefore as his essence primarily
represents itself, so it represents the creatures, and makes them
known to him. As the essence of God is eminently all things, so
by understanding his essence, he eminently understands all things!
And therefore he hath not one knowledge of himself; and another
knowledge of the creatures; but by knowing himself as the original
and exempl cause of all things, he cannot be ignorant of any
creature whil-H he is the cause of; so that he knows all things, not
by an understanding of them, but by an understanding of himself;
by understanding his own wer as the efficient of' them, his -own
will as the orderer of them, lliis own goodness as the adorner and
lieautiiier of them, his own wisdom as the disposer of them, and his
own holiness, to which many of their actions are contrary. As he
Bees all things possible in his own power, because he is able to produce
them; so he sees all things future in his own will, decreeing to effect
them, if they be good, or decreeing to permit them if the be evil!
In this class he sees what he will give being to, and' what he
will suffer to fall into a deficiency, without looking out of himself,
or' borrowing knowledge from his creatures; he knows all things in
himself And thus his knowledge is more noble, and of a higher
elevation than ours, or the knowledge of any creature can be; he
knows all things by one com rehension of the causes in himselfb
Prop. Il. God knows all thlingsiby one act of intuition. This the
schools call an intuitive knowledge. This follows upon the other;
for if he know by his own essence, he knows all things by one act,
there would be otherwise a. division in his essence, a first and a last,
s neames and a distance. As what he made, he made by one word;
so what he sees, he iereeth into by one glance from eternity to eter-
nity: as he wills all things by one act of his will, so he knows all
things by one act of his understanding: he knows not some things
discursively from other things, nor knows one thing successively
alter another. As by one act he imparts essence to things; so by
one act he knows the nature of things.
1. He doth not know by discourse, as we do ;-that is, by deducing
° Dionys ‘ Kendall against Goodwin of Foreknowledge.

