454 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
one thing from another, and from common notions drawing out other
rational conclusions and arguing one thing from another, and spring-
ing up various conse%uences from some principle assented to. But
God stands in no nee of reasonings; the making inferences and ab-
stracting things, would be stains in the infinite perfection of God;
here would be a mixture of knowledge and ignorance; while he
knew the princi le, he would not know the consequence and conclu-
sion, till he had) actually deduced it; one thing would be known
after another, and so he would have an ignorance, and then a knowl-
edge ; and there would be different conceptions in God, and knowl-
edge would be multiplied according to the multitude of objects; as
it is in human understandings. But God knows all things before
the did exist, and never was ignorant of them (Acts xv. 12;
“Kliiown unto God are all his works from the beginning of
world.” He therefore knows them all at once; the knowledge of
one thin was not before another,~nor de nded upon another, as it
doth in Sie way of human reasoning.” Tilibugh, indeed, some make
a virtual discourse in God ; that is, though God hath a simple knowl-
edge, yet it doth virtually contain a. discourse by the iiowiug of one
knowledge from another; as from the knowledge of his own power,
he knows what things are possible to be made by him; and from the
knowledge of himse f; he passes to the knowledge of the creatures;
but this is only according to our conception, and because of our
weakness they are apprehended as two distinct acts in God, one of
which is the reason of another; as we say that one attribute is the
reason of another; as his mercy ma be said to be the reason of his
patience; and his omnipresence to he the reason of the knowledg
of present things done in the world. God, indeed, by one sim le
act, knows himself and the creatures; but when that act wherelhy
he knows himself, is conceived by us to pass to the knowledge ofthe
creatures, we must not understand it to be a, new act, distinct from
the other; but the same act upon different terms or objects; such
an order is in our understandings and eonce tions, not in God’s.
2. Nor doth he know succemively as we db: that is, not by dro
one thing after another. This follows from the former; a knowledlgt
of all things without discourse, is a knowled e without succession!
The knowledge of one thing is not in God iefore another, one act
of khowledge doth not beget another; in regard of the objects, one
thin is before another, one year before another, one generation of
meniefore another, one is the cause, the other is the eifect; in the crea-
tures there is such a succession, and God knows there will be such a
a succession ; but there is no such order in God’s knowledge, for he
knows all those successions by one glance, without any succession
of knowledge in himself Man, in his view of things, must turn
sometimes his body, sometimes only his eyes, he cannot see all the
contents of a letter at once; and though he behclds all the lines in
the page of a book at once, and a whole country in a map, yet to
know what is contained in them, he must turn his eye from word to
word, and line to line, and so spin out one thing after another by
' Suarez. Vol. I. de Deo, lib. 3. cap. 2. pp. 188, 134.
° Gamach in Aquin Q. 14. cap. 1. p. 113. -

