. ON GOD’S KNOWLEDGE. 455
several acts and motions. We behold a great part of the sea `at
once# but not all the dimensions of it; for to know the-length of
the sea, we move our eyes one way ; to see the breadth of it, we turn
our eyes another way; to behold the depth of it, we have another
motion_of them. _And when we cast our eyes up t/o heaven, we seem
to receive in an instant, the whole extent of the hemisphere; yet
there is but one object the eye can attentively pitch upon, and we
cannot distinctly View what we see in a lump, without various mo-
tions of our eyes, which is not done without succession of time.°
And certainly the understanding of angels is bounded, according to
the measure of their beings; so that it cannot extend itself at one
time, to a quantity of objects, to make a distinct application of them,
bnt the objects must present themselves one by one; but God is all
e e, all understanding; as there is no succession in his essence, so
tliere is none _in his knowledge; his understanding in the nature and
in the act, is infinite, as it is in the text. _ He therefore sees, eternally
and universally, all things by one act, without any motion, much less
various motions; the various changes of things, in their substance,
qualitles, places, and 1'elations,_w1th raw not anything from his eye,
nor bring any new thing to his knowledge; he doth not upon con-
sideration of present things turn his mind from past; or when he
beholds future things turn his mind from present; but he sees them
not one alter another, but all at once and all together; the whole
circle of his own counsels, and all the various lines drawn forth from
the centre of his will, to the circumference of his creatures; just as
if a man were able in one moment to read a whole library; or, as if
you should imagine a transparent crystal globe, hung utp in the midst
of a room, and so framed as to take 1n the ima es o all things m
the room, the fret»work in the ceiling, the inlairl parts of the floor
and the particular parts of the tapestry about it, tie eye of a man
would behold all the beauty of the room at once in it. As the su11
by one light and heat frames sensible things, so God by one sim le
act knows all things; as he knows mutable things by an immutable
knowledge, bodily things by a s iritual knowled re, so he knows
many things b one knowledge (geb. iv. 13): “‘ Ah things are open
and naked to him,” more than any one thing can be to us; and
therefore he views all things at once, as well as we can behold and
contemplate one thing alone. as he IS the Father of lights, a God
of iuinite understanding, there is no variableness in his mind, nor
any shadow of turning of his eye, as there is of ours, to_behold va-
nous things (James 1. 17); his knowledge being etemal, includes all
times; there is nothing past or future with him, and therefore he
beholds all things by one and the same manner of knowledge, and
erohmprehends all blfznowable things by one act, and in one moment.
is must needs so,
(L) Because of the eminenc of God. God is above all, and
therefore cannot but see the motibns of all. He that sits in a theatre,
01' at the top of a place, sees all things, all persons; by one aspect
he wmprehends the whole circle of t ie place; whereas, he that sits
below, when he looks before, he cannot see things behind; God
4 Epiphmius- ' Mnyraut, Morale Chr-éti. Tom Ill. p 137. ,

