456 cnnmocx ON 'rms arrmsuras. -
being above all, about all, in all, sees at once the motions of all.
'Phe whole°world, in the eye of God, is less than a point that divides
one sentence from another in a book; as a cypher, a “grain of dust”
(Isa. xl. 15); so little a thing can be seen by man at once; and all
things being as little in the eye of God, a.re seen at once by him.
As all time is but a moment to his eterngy, so all things are but as
a point to the immensity of his knowl ge, which he can behold
with more ease than we can move or turn our eye.
(2.) Because all the perfections of knowing are united in God!
As particular senses are divided in man,-by one he sees, by another
he smells, yet all those are united in one common sense, and t-his
common sense comprehends all,-so the variousand distinct ways
of knowledge in the creatures are all eminently united in God. A
man when he sees a grain of wheat, understands at once all things
that can in tifne proceed from that seed; so God, by beholding his
own virtue and power, beholds all things which shal in time be un-
folded by him. We have a shadow of this way of knowledge in
our own understanding; the sense only perceives a thing present,
and one object only proper and suitable to it; as the eye sees color,
the ear hears soun s; we see this and that man, one time this, an-
other minute that; but the understanding abstracts a notion of the
common nature of man, and frames a conception of that nature
wherein all men agree; and so in a manner beholds and understands
all men at once, by understanding the common nature of man, which
is a degree of knowledge above the sense and iiincy; we may then
conceive an infinite vast/er perfection in the understanding of God.
As to know, is simply better than not to know at all; so to know
by one act comprehensive, is a greater perfection than to know by
divided acts, by succession to receive information, and to have an
increase or decrease of knowledge; to be like a bucket., always de-
scending into the well, and fetching water from thence. It is a
man’s weakness that he is fixed on one object only at a time; it is
God’s perfection that he can behold all at once, and is fixed upon
one no more than upon another.
Prop. III. God knows all things independent] . This is essential
to an infinite understandin . He receives not his knowledge from
anythin without him ; heiath no tutor to instruct him, or book to
inform him: “Who hath been his counsellor ?” saith the prophet
(Isa. xl. 13); he hath no need of the counsels of others, nor of the
instructions of others. This follows upon the first and second pro-
positions; if he knows things by his essence, then, as his essence is
independent from the creatures, so is his knowledge; he borrows
not any images from the creature; hath no species or ictures of
things in his understanding, as we have; no beams from the creature
strike u n him to enligiten him, but beams from him upon the
world; the earth sends not light to the sun, but the sun to the earth.
Our knowledge, indeed, depends upon the object, but' all created ob~
jects depend upon God’s knowledge and will; we could not know
creatures unless they were; but creatures could not be unless God
hxew them. As nothing that he wills is the cause of his will, ac
‘ Gunn. p. 646.

