ON eoirs mrowmmenz. 457
nothin# that he knows is the cause of his knowledge; he did not
make things to lcnow them, but he knows them to make them: who
will imagine that the mark of the foot in the dust is the cause that
the foot stands in this or that particular place? If his k owled
did de nd upon the things, then the existence of things did preced;
God’s kiiowledge of them: to say that they are the cause of God’s
knowledge, is to say that God was not the cause of their being; and
if he did create them, it was efected by. a blind and ignorant power;
he created he knew not what, till he had préoduced it. ° .If he be be-
holden for his knowledge to the creatures hath made, he had then
no knowledge of them befbre he made them. -' If. his knowledge
were dependent upon them, it could not beeternal, but ,must have a.
be `nning when t e creatures had a beginning, and be of no ~longer
a £te than sinw the nature of .things was in actual existence; for
whatsoever is a cause of knowledge, doth precede the knowledge it'
caum, either in order of time, or order of nature: tem oral things,
therefore, cannot be the cause of that knowledge which is eternal.
His works could not be foreknown to him, if his knowledge com~
menced with the existence of his works (Acts xv. 18): if he knew
them before he made them, he could not derive a knowledge from
them after they were made. He made all things in 'wisdom (Ps,-
civ. 24). How can this be imagined, if the things known where the
cause of his knowled , and so before his know edge, and therefore
before his action ?8 éiid would not then be the first in the order of
knowing agents, because he would not act by knowledge, but act
before he knew, and know after he had acted; and so the creature
which he made would be before the act of his understanding,
whereby he knew what he made. Again, since knowledge is a per-
fection, if God’s knowledge of the creatlues depended upon the
creatures, he would derive an excellency from them, they would de-~
rive no excellency from any idea in t e Divine mind; he would
notbe infinitely perfect in himself; if his pferfection in knowledge
were gained from anytbin without himse and below himself; he
would not be suiiicient of himself, but be under an indigence, which,
wanted a sup ly from the things he had made, and could not be
etemally perfiect till he had created and seen the effects of his own~
power, goodness, and wisdom, to render him morewise and knowing
in time than he was from eternity. Who can fancyesuoh a God as
this without destroying the Deity he pretends to adore? for if his
understanding berperfected by- something without him, why may not
his essence be pe ected by something without him; that, as he was
mafle knowing by something without him, he might be made God
by something without him? How could his understanding be in-
finite if it depended upon a 'finite obiect, as upon a cause? Is the
majesty of God to be debased to a. mendicant condition, to seek for
a supply from things inferior to himself? Is it to be imagined that
a fool, a toad, a fly, should be assistant tothe knowledge of God?
that the most noble being should be rfected by things so vile; that
the Supreme Cause of all things sheould receive any addition of
knowledge, and be determined in his understanding, by the notiou
I Bradward, lib. 1. cap. 16.* _

