458 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
of things so mean ? To conclude this particular, all things depend
upon his knowledge, his knowledge depends upon nothing, but is m
'independent as himself and his own essence.
Prop. IV. God knows all things distinct] . His understanding is
iniinite in regard of clearness; “God is light, and in him is no dark-
ness at all” (John i. 5); he sees not through a mist or cloud; there
is no blemish in his understanding, no mote or beam in his eye, to
render any thin obscure to him. Man discerns the surface and out»
side of things; little or nothing of the essence of things; we see the
noblest thing but “as in a glass darkl ” (1 Cor. xiii. 12); the too
great nearness, as well as the too great   of a thing, hinders
our sight; the smallness of a mote escapes our eye, and so our
knowledge; also the weakness of our understanding is troubled with
the multitude of things, and cannot know man things but con~
fusedly: but God knows the forms and essence ofy things, every cir-
cumstance; nothing is so deep, but he sees to the bottom; he sees
the mass, and sees the motes of beintgs; his understanding being in-
finite, is not offended with a multitu e of things, or distracted with
the variety of them ; he discerns every thing innnitely more clearly
and perfectly than Adam or Solomon could any one thing in the
circle of their knowledge ; what knowledge they had, was from him;
he hath, therefore, infinitely a more perfect knowledge than they
were capable in their natures to receive a communication ofl All
things are open to him (Heb. iv. 13); the least fibre, in its naked-
ness and distinct frame, is transparent to him, as, by the help of
glasses, the mouth, feet, hands, of' a small insect, are visible to aman,
which seem to the eye, without that assistance, one entire piece, not
diversified into parts. All the causes, qualities, natures, properties
of things, are o en to him; “he brings out the host of heaven by
number, and cailleth them by names” (Isa. xl. 26); he numbers the
hairs of our heads: what more distinct than number? Thus God
beholds things in every unity, which makes u the heap; he knows,
and none else can, every thing in its true and) intimate causes, in its
original and intermediate causes; in himself, as the cause of every
particular of their being, every property in their being. Knowledge
y the causes is the most nob e and perfect knowledge, and most
suited to the iniinite excellency of the Divine Being; he created all
things, and ordered them to a universal and particular end; he,
therefore, knows the essential pro erties of every thing, every ac-
tivity of their nature, all their fiiiness for those distinct ends, to
which he orders them, and for which he governs and disposeth them,
and understands their darkest and most hidden qualities infinitely
clearer than any eye can behold the clear beams of the sun. He
knows all things as he made them; he made them distinctly, and
therefore knows them distinctly, and that every individual; there
fore God is said (Gen. i. 31) to see every thing that he had made;
he took a review of every particular creature he had made, and upon
his view pronounced it good. To pronounce that good, which was
not exact y known in every creek, in every mite of its nature, had
not consisted with his veracity; for every one that speaks truth
ignorantly, that knows not that he speaks truth, is a liar in speaking

