ON sorrs KNOWLEDGE. 459
that which is true. God knows every act of his own will, whether
itbe positive or permissive, and therefore every effect of his wilL
We must needs ascribe to God a perfect knowledge; but a confiised
knowledge cannot challenge that title. To know thiggs only in a
heap is unworthy of the Divine perfection; for if G knows his
own ends in the creation of thinvs, he knows distinctly the means
whereby he will bring them to ghose ends for which he hath ap-
pointed them: no wise man intends an end, without a knowledgp of
the means conducing to that end; an ignorance, then, of any t ing
in the world, which falls under the nature of a means to a Divine
end (and there is nothing in the world but doth), would be incon-
sistent with the perfection of God; it would ascribe to him a blind
p;~ovidence in the world. As there can be nothing imperfect in his
ing and essence, so there can be nothing imperfect in his under-
stan ing and knowledge, and therefore not a confused knowledge,
which is an imperfection. “Darkness and light are both alike to
him" (Ps. cxxxix. 12); he sees distinctly into the one, as well as the
other; what is darkness to us, is not so to him.
Prop. V. God knows all things infallibly. His understanding is
infinite in regard of certainty ; every tittle of what he knows is as
far from failing as what he speaks; our Saviour aflirms the one
(Matt. v. 18), and there is the same reason of the certainty of one as
well as the other; his essence is the measure of his knowledge;
whence it is as impossible that God should be mistaken in the knowl-
edge of the least thing in the world, as it is that he should be mis-
taken in his own essence; for, knowing 'himself comprehensivel ,
he must know all others thin infallibly; since he is essentially
omniscient, he is no more capalble of error in his understanding than
of imperfection in his essence; his counsels are as unerring as his
essence is rfect, and his knowled e as infallible as his essence is
free from difect. Again, since God knows all things with a knowl-
edge of vision, because he wills them, his knowledge must be as in-
fallible as his urpose; now his purpose will certainly be effected;
“what he hatli) thought shall come to pass, and what he hath ur-
poscd shall stand” (Isa. xiv. 24;; “his counsel shall stand, andp he
will do all his pleasure” (Isa. x vi. 10). There may be interruptions
of nature, the foundation of it may be out of course, but there can
be no bar upon the Author of nature; he hath an infinite ower to
carry on an perfect the resolves of his own will; he can effect what
hexpleases by a word. Speech is one of the least motions; yet when
G said, “let there be ight, there was light” arising from dark-
ness. No reason can be given why God knows a thing to be, but
because he infallibly wills it to be. Again,*\ the schools make this
dit‘ference between the knowledge of the good and bad angels, that
the good are never deceived; for that is repugnant to their blessed
state; for deceit is an evil and an imperfection inconsistent withthat
perfect blessedness the good angels are possessed of; and would it
not much more be a stain upon the blessedness of that God, that is
blamed forever, to besnbject to deceit? His knowledge therefore
B not an opinion, for an opinion is uncertain; a man knows not
- 5 Saurez. Vol. II. p. 228.

