460 - cmiznocx ON ras .irrnxsurss
what to think, but leans to one art of the question proposed, rather
than to the other. If things dig not 'come to pass t ereibre as God
knows them, his knowledge would be imperfect; and since he knows
by his essence, his essence also would be imperfect, if God were ex-
posed to any deceit in his knowledge; he knows by himself] who is
the highest truth; and therefore it is impossible he should err in his
understanding.
-Prop.'VI. God knows immutably. His understanding else could
not be infinite; eve thing and every act that is mutable, is finite,
it hath its bounds; lfdr there is a term from which it changeth, and
a term to which it changes! There is a. change in the understand-
ing, when-we gain the knowledge of a thing, which was unknown
to us before; or when we actually consider a thing which we did
not know before, though we had the principles of the knowledge of
it; or, when we know that distinctly, which we before knew con-
fusedly. None of these can be ascribed to God without a mani-
fest disparagement of his infiniteness. Our knowledge indeed is
alway arriving to us or flowing from us; we pass from one degree
to another; from worse to better, or from better to worse; but God
loses nothing by the ages that are run, nor will gain anything by the
ages that are to come. If there were a variation in the knowledge
o God, by the daily and hourly changes in the world, he woud
grow wiser than he was, he was not then perfectly wise before, A
change in the objects known, infers not any change in the under-
standing exercised about them ; the wheel moves round, the spokes
that are lowest are presently highest, and presently return to be low
again ; but the eye that beholds them changes not with the motions
o the wheels. God’s knowledge admits no more of increase or de-
crease, than his essence doth; since God knows by his essence, and
the essence of God is God himself, his knowledge must be void of
any change. The knowledge of possible things, arising from the
knowledge of his own power, cannot be changed unless his power
be changed, and God become weak and impotent; the knowledge
of future things cannot be changed, because that knowledge ariseth
from his will, which is irreversible, “ the counsel of the Lord that
shall stand” (Prov. xix. 21); so that if God can never decay into
weakness, and never turn tovinconstancy, there can be no variation
of his knowled e. He knows what he can do, and he knows what
he will do; am? both these being immutable, his knowledge must,
conse uently, be so too. It was not necessary that this or that crew
ture should be, and therefore it was not necessary that God should
know this or that creature* with a knowledge of vision; but after
the will of God had determined the existence of this or that crew
ture, his knowledge being then determined to this or that object, did
necessarily continue unchan eable. God, therefore, knows no more
now than he did before; and at the end of the world, he shall know
no more than he doth now; and from eternity, he knows no lest
than he doth now, and shall do to eternity. Though things pam
into being and out of bein , the knowledge of God doth not vary
with them, for he; knows ghem as well before they were, as when
‘ Tilcni Syntagina, Part I. Disp. 18. Thee. 14.

