ON sons KNOWLEDGE. 461
they are, and knows them as well when they are past, as when they
t.
are resen
Piiop. VII. God knows all thin perpetually, i. e. in act. Since he
knows b his essence, he always grows, because his essence never
eeaseth, lint is a pure act; so that he doth not know only in habit,
but in act. Men that have the knowledge of some art or science,
have it always in habit, though when they are asleep they have it
not in act: a musician hath the habit of music, but doth not so
much as think of it when his senses are bound up. But God is an
unsleepy e e ;" he never slumbers nor sleeps ; he never slumbers, in
regard of   rovidence, and therefore never slumbers in regard
of his knowledlge. He knows not himself, nor any other creature
more fperfectly at one time than at another; he is perpetually in the
act o knowing, as the sun is in the act of shining; the sun never
ceased to shine in one or other part of the world, since it was first
fixed in the heavens; nor God to be in 'the act of knowledge, since
he was God; and therefore since he alwa s was, and always will be
God, he always was and always will be in tlie act of knowledge; al ways
knowingl his own essence, he must alway actually know what hath been
gone an ceased from being, and what shall come and arise into being;
asa watchmaker knows what watch he intends to make, and alter he
hath made it, though it be broken to pieces, or consumed by the fire, he
still knows it, because he knows the copy of it in his own mind. Some,
therefore, in regard of this perpetual act of the Divine knowledge, have
called God not z`nicZlectu.s, but the int/ellection of intellections; we have
no proper English word to express the act of the understanding; as
his power is eo-eternal with him, so is his knowledge; all times past,
present, and to come, are embraced in the bosom of his understand-
ing; he fixed all things ln their seasons, that nothing new comes to
him, nothing old passes from him.l What is done in a thousand
years, is actually present with his knowledge, as what is done in one
day, or in one watch in the night, is with ours; since a “ thousand
years are no more to God than a day,” or a “ watch in the night” is
to ns (Ps. xc. 4). God is in the highest degree of being, and there-
fore in the highest degree of understanding. Knowledge is one of
the most rfect acts in any creature. God therefore hath all ac-
tuahllaas welfas essential and habitual knowledge; his understanding
is nite.
IV. 'l‘he fourth general is, Reasons to prove this.
Reason 1. God must know what any creature knows, and more
than any creature knows. There is nothing done in the world but
is known by some creature or other; every action is at least known
by the rson that acts, and therefore known by the Creator, who
cannot bf: exceeded by any of the creatures, or all of them together;
and every creature is known by him, since every creature is made
by him.'“ And as God works all things by an infinite power, so he
knows all things by an iniinite understanding. First, the perfection
of God requires‘th1s." All perfections that include no essential de-
fect, are formally in God; but knowledge includes no essential de
1 Paw, .imz,.f,f»¢ malta. I Dmimms ' - Gerhard.
‘Gsmaeh in Aquin. Part l. Q, 14, cap. 1. pp. 118, 119.

