462 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
fect in itself, therefore it is in God. Knowledge in itself is desirable,
and an exoellencv ; ignorance is a defect; it is impossible that the
least grain of defect can be found in the most perfect Being. Since
God is wise, he must be knowing; for wisdom must have knowl-
edge for the basis of it. A creature can no more be wise without
knowledge, than he can be active without strenvth. Now God is
“only wise” (Rom. xvi. 27); and, therefore, only knowing in the
highest de ee of knowledge, incomprehensibly beyond all degees
of knowledge, because infinite. Again, the more spiritual anything
is, the more understanding it is. The dull bod understands
nothing; sense perceives, but the understanding faculty is seated in
the soul, which is of a spiritual nature, which knows things that am
present, remembers things that are past, foresees many things to
come. What is the property of a spiritual nature, must be, in a
most eminent manner, in the supreme spirit of the world ; that is, in
the highest degree of spirituality, and most remote from any matter.
Again, nothing can enjo other things, but by some kind of under-
standing them; God hath the highest enjoyment of himself; of all
things he hath created, of all the glory that accrues to him by them;
nothing of perfection and blessedness can be wanting to him. Fe-
licity doth not consist with ignorance, and all imperfect knowledge
is a degree of ignorance: God, therefore, doth perfectly know him-
self, and all things from whence he designs any glory to himself
The most noble manner of acting must be ascribed to God, as being
the most noble and excellent Being; to act by knowledge is the
most excellent manner of acting; God hath, therefore, not only
knowledge, but the most excellent manner of knowledge; for as it
is better to know than to be ignorant, so itjs better to know in the
most excellent manner, than to have a. mean and low kind of knowl-
edge; his knowledge, thcrefore, must be every way as perfect as his
essence, infinite as well as that. An infinite nature must have an
infinite knowledge: a God ignorant of anything cannot be counted
infinite, for he is not infinite to whom any degree of perfection is
wanting.
Reason 2. All the knowledge in any creature is from God. And
you must allow God a greater and more perfect knowledge than any
creature hath, yea, than all creatures have. All the drops of know -
edge any creature hath, come from God ; and all the knowledge in
every creature, that ever was, is, or shall be, in the whole mass, was
derived from him. If all those several drops in particular creatures,
were collected into one spirit, into one creature, it would be an un-
conccivable knowledge, yet still lower than what the Author of all
that knowledge hath; for God cannot give more knowledge than he
hath himself; nor ist the creature capable of receiving so much
knowledge as God hath. As the creature is incapable of receiving
so much power as God hath, for then it would be almighty, so it is
inca able of receiving so much knowledge as God hath, for then it
woulgd be God. Nothing can be made by God equal to him in ang;
thing; if anything coul be made as knowing as God, it would
eternal as God, it would be the cause of all things as God. The
knowledge that we poor worms have, is an argument God uses for

