ON sons KNOWLEDGE. 463
the asserting the greatness of his own knowledge §Ps. xciv. 10): “He
that teaches man knowledge, shall not he know ?’ Man hath here
knowled e ascribed to him; the author of this knowledge is God;
he furnisied him with it, and therefore doth in a higher manner pos-
sess it, and much more than can fall under the com rehension of any
creature; as the sun enlightens all things, but hatlli more light in it-
self than it darts upon the earth or the heavens: and shall not God
eminently contain all that knowledge he im arts to the creatures,
and infinitely more exact and comprehensive?
Reason 3. The accusations of conscience evidence God’s knowledge
of all actions of his creatures. Doth not conscience check for the
most secret sins, to which none are privy but a man’s self, the whole
world beside being ignorant of his crime? Do not the fears of
another Judge gall the heart? If a judgment above him be feared,
an understanding above him discerning their secrets is confessed by
those fears; whence can those horrors arise, if there be not a supe-
rior that understands and records the crime? What erfection of
the Divine Being can this relate unto, but omniscience?p What other
attribute is to be feared, if God were defective in this? The con-
demnation of us by our own hearts, when none in the world can
condemn us, renders it legible, that there is One “greater than our
hearts” in respect of knowledge, who “knoweth all things” (1 John
  20). Conscience would be a vain principle, and stingless with-
out this; it would be an easy matter to silence all its accusations,
and mockingly laugh in the face of its severest frowns. What need
any trouble themselves, if none knows their crimes but themselves?
Concealed sins, gnawing the conscience, are arguments of God’s om-
niscienoe of all present and past actions.
Reason 4. God is the first cause of everything, every creature is
his production. Since all creatures, from t e highest angel to the
lowest worm, exist b the power of God, if God understands his
own power and excellincy, nothing can' be hid from him, that was
brought forth by that power, as well as nothing can be unknown to
him, that that power is able to produce. “ If God knows nothing
besides himself, he may then believe there is nothing besides himself;
we shall then fancy a God miserably mistaken : if he knows nothing
besides himself, then things were not created b him, or not under-
standingly and voluntarily creat/ed, but droppedy from him before he
was aware.° To think that the First Cause of all should be ignorant
of those things he is the cause of, is to make him not a voluntary,
but natural agent, and therefore necessary ; and then that the crea-
ture came from him as light from the sun, and moisture from the
water; this would be an absurd opinion of the world’s creation; if
God be a volunta agent, as he is, he must be an intelligent agent.
The facult of wil, is not in any creature, without that of under-
standing also. If God be an intelligent agent, his knowledge must
extend as far as his operation, and every object of his operation
unless we imagine God hath lost his memory, in that long tract of
time since the first creation of them. An artiiicer cannot be ignorant
of his own work: if God knows himself] he knows himself to be a
° Bradwardin, p. 8.

