464 ciuinnocx ON mm Arrnrnurss.
cause; how can he know himself to be a cause, unless he know the
effects he is the cause of ? One relation implies another; a man
cannot know himself to be afather, unless he ath a child, because
it isa name of relation, and in the notion of it refers to another.
The name of cause is a name-of relation, and implies an elfect; if
God therefore know himself in all his rfections, as the cause of
things, he must know all his acts, whatliieis wisdom contrived, what
his counsel determined, and what his power effected. The knowl-
edgle of God is to be supposed in a freedetermination of himself;
an that knowledge must be perfect, both of the object, act, and all
the circumstances of it. How can his will freely roduce an fthing
that was not first known in his understanding? From tliis the
prophet argues the understanding of God, and the unsearchableness
of it, because he is the “ Creator of the ends of the earth” (Isa. xl.
28), and the same reason David `ves of God’s knowledge of him,
and of everything he did, and thlat afar oil, because he was formed
by him (Ps. cxxxix. 2, 15, 16). As the perfect making) of things
only belongs to God: so doth the erfect knowledge of t ings; it is
as absurd to think, that God should be ignorant of what e hath
given being to ; that he should not know all the creatures and their
qualities, the plants and their virtues; as that a man should not
know the letters that are formed by him in writing. Everythiigg
bears in itself the mark of .God’s perfection; and shall not G
know the representation of his own virtue?
&ason 5. Without this knowledge, God could no more be the Gov-
ernor, than he couldbe the Creator of the world Knowledge is the
basis of providence; to know things, is before the government of
things; a practical knowledge cannot be without a, theoretical knowl-
edge. Nothing could he directed to its proper end, without the knowl
edge of the nature of it, and its suitahleness to answer that end for which
it-is intended. As everything, even the minutest, falls under the
conduct of God, so everything falls under the knowledge of God.
A blind coachman is not able to hold the reins of his oises, and
direct them in right aths: since the providence of God is about par~
ticulars, his knowledlge must be about particulars; he could not else
govern them in particular; nor could all things be said to depend
upon him in their being and operations. _ Providence depends upon
the knowledge of God, and the exercise of it upon the goodness of
God; it cannot be Without understanding and will; understanding,
to know what is convenient, and will to perform it. When our
Saviour therefore s aks of providence, he intimates these two in a
special manner, “ Ypdur heavenly Father knows that you have need
of these things” (Matt. vi. 32), and goodness, in Luke   13. T116
reason of providence is so joined with omniscience, that they cannot
be separated. \fVhat a kind of God would he be that were ignorant
of those things that were governed by him I The ascrihing this por-
fection to him, asserts his providence; for it is as easy for one that
knows all things, to look. over the whole world, if writ with mono-
syllables, in every little particular of it; as it is with a man to mlie
a view of one letter in an alphabet. Again, if God were not omm-
seient, how could he reward the goo , and punish the evil? the

