on' eo1>‘s nrownnnen. 465
works of men are either rewardable or punishable; not only accord-
ing to their outward circumstances, but inward principles and ends,
and the degrees of venom linking in the heart.P The exact discern-
ing of these, without a possibility to be deceived, is necessary to pass
a right and infallible judgment upon them, and progprtion the cen-
sure and punishment to t e crime: without such a nowledge and
discerning, men would not have their due ; nay, a judgment justforthe
matter, would be unjust in the manner, because unjustly past, with-
out an understanding of the merit of the cause. It is necessary
therefore that the Supreme Judge of the world should not be thought
to be blindfold, when he distributes his rewards and punishments,
and mutlle his face when he passes his sentence. It is necessary to
ascribe to him the knowledge of men’s thoughts and intentions; the
secret wills and aims; the hidden works of darkness in every man’s
conscience, because every rnan’s work isito be measured by the will
and inward frame. It is necessary that he should perpetually retain
allthose things in the indelible and plain records o his memory,
that there ma. not be any work without a just pro rtion of what
is due to it.   is the glory of God, to discover th; secrets of all
hearts at last, as 1 Cor. iv. 5, “ The Lord shall bring to light the
hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of
all hearts, and then shall every man have praise of God.” This
knowled e tits him to be a judge; the reason why the ungodl shall
not stancg in judgment, is because God knows their ways, wlhchis
implied in his knowing the way 'of the righteous (Ps. i. 5, 6). I now
proceed to the use. I -
Use I. is of information or instruction. If God hath all knowl
e; then,
edlnstruct 1. Jesus Christ is not a mere creature. The two titles of
wonderful Counsellor, and mightly God, are given him in conjunction
gin. ix. 6), not onl the Ange of the covenant, as he is called
alach. iii. 1), or the executor of his counsels, but a counsellor, in
conjunction with him in counsel as well as power: this title is supe-
ricr to any title given to any of the prophets in regard of their pre-
dictions; and therefore I should take it rather as the note of his
perfect understanding, than of his perfect teaching and discovering;
as Calvin doth. He is not only the revealer of what he knows, so
were the prophets according to their measures; but the counsellor
of what he revealed, having a perfect understanding of all the coun-
sels of God, as leing interested in them, as the mighty God. He
calls himself by the culiar title of God, and declares that he will
manifest hirnsdf by dieis rerogative to all the churches (Rev. ii. 238:
“And all the churches shall know that I am he which searches t e
reins and hearts," the most hidden o rations of the minds of men,
that lie locked up from the view of allethe world besides. And this
was no new thing to Him, after his ascension ; for the same perfec-
tion he had in the time of this earthly flesh (Luke vi. 8), he knew
their thoughts; his eyes are therefore compared (Cant. v. HI) to
gloves' eyes, which are clear and quick ; and to a flame of fire ( ev.
1. 14), not only heat to consume his enemies, but light to discern
I Ssbund. Tit. 84. much changed.
'OL 1.130

