466 clnnuocx ON nm AJITRIBUTES.
their contrivances against the church ; he pierceth by his knowledge.
into all parts, as fire pierceth into the closest article of iron, and
separates between the most united parts of metals; and some tell us,
he is called a Roe, from the perspicacity of his sight, as well as hom
the swiftness of his motion.
1. He hath a perfect knowledge of the Father; he knows the
Father, and none else knows the Father; angels know God, men
know God, but Christ in a peculiar manner knows the Father; no
man knows the Son but the Father; neither knows any man the
Father, save the Son (Matt. xi. 27); he knows so, as that he learns
not from any other; he doth perfectly com rehend him, which is
beyond the reach of any creature, with the adpdition of all the divine
virtue; not because of any incapacit in God to reveal, but the in-
capacity of the creatine to receive ; -tiynite is incapable of being made
in nite, and therefore incapable of comprehending infinite; so that
Christ cannot be Deus factus, made of a creature a God, to compre-
hend God; for then of finite he would become infinite, which is a
contradiction. As the Spirit is God, because he searches the deep
things of God (1 Cor. ii. 10), that is comprehends them,q as the spirit
of a man doth the things of a man (now the spirit of man understands
what it thinks, and what it wills? so the S irit of God understands
what is in the understanding of od, and wlhat is in the will of God.
He hath an absolute knowledge ascribed to him., and such as could
not be ascribed to anything but a divinity: now if the Spirit knows
the dee things of God, and takes hom Christ what he shows to us
of him Zlohn xvi. 15), he cannot be i orant of those things hi1n~
self; he must know the depths of God-:Ithat affords us that Spirit,
that is not ignorant of any of the counsels of the Father’s will; since
he comprehends the Father, and the Father him, he is in himself in-
finite; for God whose essence is infinite, is infinitely knowable; but
no created understanding can infinitely know God. The infinitenem
of the object hinders it from bein understood by anything that is
not infinite. Though a creature should understand all the works of
God, et it cannot be therefore said to understand God himself : as
though I may understand all the volitions and motions of my soul.
yet it doth not follow that therefore I understand the whole nature
and substance of m soul; or if a man understood all the effects Of
the sun, that therefbre he understands f\1ll the nature of the sun-
But Christ knows the Father, he lay in the bosom of the Father,
was in the greatest intimacy with him (John i. 18), and from this 1n-
timacy with him, he saw him and knew him; so he knows God as
much as he is knowable; and therefore knows him perfectly as the
Father knows himself by a com rehensive vision; this is the knowl-
edge of God wherein properly the ininiteness of his understanding
appears: and our Saviour uses such expressions which manifest hm
knowledge to be above all created knowledge, and such a manner
of knowledge of the Father, as the Father hath of him.
2. Christ knows all creatures. That knowledge which compw
hends God, comprehends all created things as they are in God; it is 8
knowledge that sinks to the depths of his will, and therefore extend!
‘I Petsv. Theo. Dogmat. I. p. 467, dw. Q

