\
. ON coirs xsownsncn. 467
to all the acts of his will in creation and providence; by knowing the
Father he knows all things that are contained in the virtue, power,
and will of God; “ whatsoever the Father doth, that the Son doth”
(John v. 19.) As the Father therefore knows all things he is the
cause of, so doth the Son know all things he is the worker of; as the
perfect making of all things belongs to both, so doth the perfect knowl-
edge of all things belon to both; where the action is the same, the
knowledge is the same. §\Tow the Father did not create one thing and
Christ another; “but all things were created by him, and for him, all
things both in heaven and earth” (Col. i. 16): as he knows himself as
the cause of all things, and the end of all thin , he cannot be igno-
rant of all things that were eifected by him, ands are referred to him;
he knows all creatures in God, as he knows the essence of God, and
knows all creatures in themselves, as he knows his own acts and the
fruits of his power; those things must be in his knowledge that were
in his (power; all the treasures of the wisdom and knowled e of God
are hi in him (Col. ii. 3). Now it is not the wisdom of Croc? to know
in part, and be in part ignorant. He cannot be i norant of anything,
since there ‘s nothing but what was made by him glohn i. 3), and since
it is less to know than create; for we know many things which we
cannot make! If he be the Creator, he cannot but be the discerner
of what he made; this is a. art of' wisdom belonging to an artificer,
toknow the nature and quality of what he makes. Since he cannot
he ignorant of what he furnished with being, and with various en-
dowments, he must know them not only universally, but particularly.
3. Christ knows the heart and affections of men. Peter scru les
not to ascribe to him this knowled e, among the knowledge oil) all
other things (John xxi. 17). “Lord thou knowest all things, thou
knowest that I love thee.” From Christ’s knowledge of all things,
he concludes his knowledge of the inward frames and dispositions
of men. To search the heart is the sole prerogative of God (1 Kings
viii. 33), for thou, even thou only knowest the hearts of all the chil-
dren o men: shall we take only here with a limitation, as some that
are no friends to the Deity of Christ would, and say, God only
knows the hearts of men from himself, and by his own infinite vir-
tue? Why may we not take only in other places with a limitation,
Ed make nonsense of it, as Ps. lxxxvi. 10, “Thou art God alone.”
it to be understood that God is God alone from himself, but other
g0ds may be made by him, and so there may be numberless infinites?
As God is God alone, so that none can be God but himself; so he
alone knows all the hearts of all the children of men, and none but
he can know them; this knowledge is from his nature. The reason
why God knows the hearts of men, is rendered in the Scripture
double, because he created them, and because he is present every-
where (Ps. xxxiii. 13, 15),° these two are by the confession of Chris-
tians and Pagans universally received as the proper characters of
divinity, whereby the Deit is distinguished from all creatures
Now when Christ ascribes this to himself, and that with such an
emphasis, that nothing greater than that could be urged, as he doth
(Bev. ii. 23), we must conclude that he is of the same essence with
' Petsv. Theol. Dogmat. Tom I. p. 467. ' Placieus de Deitate Christi.

