468 cnsarvocx on rss srrnrsurss.
God, one with him in his nature, as well as one with him in his attn
butes. God only knows the hearts of the children of men; there is
thc unity of God: Christ searches the hearts and reins; there is a dis-
tinction of persons in a oneness of essence; he knows the hearts of all
men, not only of those that were with him in the time of the flesh, that
have been, and shall be, since his ascension; but of those that lived
and died before his coming; because he is to be the Judge of all that
lived before his humiliation on earth, as well as aiier his exaltationin
heaven. It pertains to him, as a Judge, to know distinctly the merits
of the cause of which he is to jud e; and this excellency of searching
the hearts is mentioned by himself with relation to his judicial pro-
ceeding, “ I will give to ever one of you according to your works"
And though a creature may linow what is in a man’s heart, if it be
revealed to him, yet such a knowledge is a knowledge only by report,
not by inspection; yet this latter is ascribed to Christ (John ii. 24, 25):
“ he knew all men, and needed not that any should testify of man, for
he knew what was in man :” he looked into their hearts. The Evan-
gelist, to allay the amazement of men at his relation of our Saviour's
'nowledge o the inward falsit of those that made a splendid profes-
sion of him, doth not say the Fgther revealed it to him, but intunates
it to be an unseparable property of his oature. No covering was so
thick as to bound his eye; no pretense so glittering as to impose
upon his understanding. Those that made a profession of him, and
could not be discerned by the eye of man from his faithfulest attend-
ants, were in their inside known to him plainer than their outside
was to others; and, therefore, he committed not himself to them,
though they seemed to be persuaded to a real belief in his name,
because of the power of his miracl and were touched with an ad-
miration of him, as some great proeghet, and, perhaps, declared him
to be the Messiah (ver. 23.)
4. He had a. foreknowledge of the particular inclinations of men,
before those distinct inclinations were in actual being in them. This
is plainly asserted, John vi. 64: “But there are some of you that
believe not; for Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that
believed not, and who should betray him.” When Christ assllred
them, from the knowledge of the hearts' of his followers, that some
of them were void of that faith they rofessed, the Evangelist,  
stop their amazement that Christ shoulcl have such a power and vir-
tue, adds, that he “ knew from the beginning ;” that he had not only
a present knowledge, but a. foreknowledge, o every one’s inclination?
be knew, not only now and then what was in the hearts of his dll'
ciples, but from the be inning, of any one’s giving up their namw
to him; he knew whether it were a pretence or sincere; he knew
who should betray him; and there was no man’s inward afectlvll
but was foreseen b him.* “From the beginning,” whether we }111'
derstand it from tlie be ` ning of the world, as when Christ saith,
concernin divorces, “ Eg-ldlm the beginning it was not so," that 18|
from the gbeginning of the world, from the beginning of t.he_l£1}*'
of nature; or, from the beginning of their att/ending him, as_1f215
taken, Luke i. 2; he had a certain prescienee of the inward d1sp°'
‘ 'Ei 'Mif-

