ON oor>‘s xNowLEncm. 469
sitions of men’s hearts, and their succeedin sentiments; he foreknew
the treacherous heart of Judas in the mi£t of his splendid profes-
sion, and discerned his resolution in the root, and his thought in the
confused chaos of his natural corruption; he knew how it would
gpring up before it did spring up, before Judas had any distinct and
ormal conception of it himself, or before there was any actual prep-
aration to a resolve. Peter’s denial was not unknown to him, when
Peter had a present resolution, and no question spake it in the pres-
ent sineerit of his soul, “ never to forsake him ;’ he foreknew what
would be the result of that poison which lurked in Peter’s nature,
before Peter himself imagned anything of it; he discerned Peter’s
apostatizing heart, when eter resolved the contrary: om' Saviour’s
prediction was accomplished, and Peter‘s valiant resolution lan-
guished into cowardice. Shall we then conclude our blessed Saviour
a creature, who perfectly and only knew the Father, who knew all
creatures; who had \all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge who
knew the inward motions of men’s hearts by his own virtue, and
had, not only a present knowledge, but a prescience of them?
Instruct. 2. The second instruction from this position, That God
hath an infinite knowled e and understanding. Then there is a
providence exercised by god in the world, and that about every-
thing. As providence infers omniscience as the guide of it, so om-
niscience infers providence as the end of it. ` What exercise would
there be of this attribute, but in the government of the world? To
this, this infinite perfection refers (Jer. xvii. 10), “I the Lord search
the heart, I try the reins, to give every man according to his ways,
and according to the fruit of his doings.” He searches the heart to
reward, he rewards every man according to the rewardableness of
his actions; his government, therefore, extends to every man in the
world; there is no heart but he searches, therefore no heart but he
governs; to what purpose, else, would be this knowledge of all his
creatures? for a mere contemplation of them? No. What pleasure
can that be to God, who knows himself, who is infinitely more ex-
cellent than all his creaturcs? Doth he know them to neglect all
care of them?,this must be either out of sloth; but how incom at-
ible is laziness to a pure and infinite activity! or out of ma`esty;q>ut
it is no less for the glory of his majesty to conduct them, than it was
for the glory of his power to erect them into being. He that counts
nothing unworthy of his arms to make, nothing unworthy of' his
understanding to know, why should he count anything unworthy
of his wisdom to govern? If he knows them to neglect them, it
must be because he hath no will to it, or no goodness for it; either
of these would be a stain upon God; to want goodness is to be evil,
and to want will is to be negligent and scornful, which are incon-
sistent with an infinite, active goodness. Doth a father neglect pro-
viding for the wants of the famil which he knows? or a physician,
the cure of that disease he undizrstands? God is omniscient, he
thereforesees all things; he is good, he doth not therefore neglect
anything, but conducts it to the end he appointed it. There is
nothing so little that can escape his knowled e, and therefore nothing
so little but falls under his providence; nothing so sublime as to be
\

