470 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
above his understanding, and therefore nothing can be without the
compass of his conduct; nothing can escape his eye, and therefore
nothing can escape his care; nothing is known to him in vain, as
nothing was made by him in vain; there must be acknowledged,
therefore, some end of this knowledge of all his creatures.
Imzbmt. 3. Hence, then, will follow the certainty of a. day of
judgment. To what purpose can we imagine this attribute of om-
niscience, so often dec ared and urged in Scripture to our considera-
tion, but in order to a government of our ractice, and a future
trial? Every perfection of the Divine nature hath sent out brighter
rays in the wor d than this of his infinite knowledge. His power
hath been seen in the being of the world, and his wisdom in the
order and harmony of the creatures; his race and mere hath been
plentifully poured out in his mission of altedeemer, andy his justice
ath been e evated b the dying groans' of the Son of God upon
the cross. But hath his omniscience yet met with a lory pro r-
tionable to that of his other perfections? All the attniutes of good
that have ap eared in some beautiful glimmerings in the world, wait
for a more fiill manifestation in lor , as the creatures do for the
“manifestation of the sons of God” (liom. viii. 19); but especially
this, since it hath been less evidenced than others, and as much, or
more, abused than any; it expects, therefore a public righting in
the eye of the world. There have been, indeed, some few sparks
of this perfection sensibly struck out now and then in the world in
some horrors of conscience, which have made men become their own
accuscrs of unknown crimes, in .bringin out hidden wickedness to
a public view by various (providences. gfhis hath also been the de-
sign of spéinklmgs of ju gments upon several generations, as (Ps.
xc. 8), “ e are consume by thy anger, and by thy wrath we are
troubled; thou hast set our iniquities before thee, and our secret
sins in the light of thy’ countenance.” The word ww: signifies
youth, as well as secret, i. e., sins committed long ago, and that with
secrecy. By this he hath manifested that secret sins are not hid
from his eye. Though inward terrors and outward judgments have
been let loose to worry men into a belief of this, yet the corruptions
of men would still keep a contrary notion in their minds, that “God
hath forgotten, that he hides his face from transgression, and will
not regard their impiety" (Ps. X. 11). There must, therefore, be a
time of trial for the public demonstration of this excellency, that it
may receive its due onor, by a full testimony that no secrecy can
be a shelter from it. As his justice, which consists in givin every
one his due, could not be glorified, unless men were callef to an
account for their actions, so neither would his omniscience appear in
its illustrious colors, without such a manfestation of the secret mo-
tions of men’s hearts, and of villanies done under lock and key,
when none were conscious to ,them, but the committers of them.
Now the last judgment is the time a pointed for the “opening of the
books” (Dan. vii. 10). The book oi? God`s records, and conscience
the counterpart, were never fully opened and read before, only now
and then some pa turned to, in particular 'udgments; and out
of those “books £11 men be judged according to their works"

