oN eon's KNOWLEDGE. 471
(Bev. xx. 12). Then shall the defaced sins be brought, with all
their circumstances, to every man’s memory; the counsels of men’s
hearts fled far from _their present remembrance, all the habitual
knowledge they had of their own actions, shall, by God’s knowled e
of them, be excited to an actual review; and their works not only
made manifest to themselves, but notorious to the world: all the
words, thoughts, deeds of men, shall be brought forth into the light
of their own minds by the infinite light of God’s understanding re-
flecting on them. His knowledge renders him an unerring witness,
as well as his justice “a swift witness" (Mal. iii. 5); a swift witness,
because he shall, without any circuit, or length of speech, convince
their consciences, by an inward illumination of them, to take notice
of the blackness and deformity of their hearts and works. In all
judgments God is somewhat known to be the searcher of hearts;
the time of judgment is the time of his remembrance (Hos. viii. 13):
“ Now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins ;” but the
great instant, or now, of the full glorifying it, is the grand day of
account. This attribute must have a time for its full discovery; and
no time can be fit for it but a time of a general reckoning. oustice
cannot be exercised without omniscience ; for as justice is a giving
to every one his due, so there must be know1edge_to discern what is
due to every man; the searching the heart is in order to the reward~
ing the works.
Instruct 4. This perfection in God gives us ound to believe a
insurrection. Who can think this too hard forgiis ower, since not
the least atom of the dust of our bodies can escape his knowledge?
An infinite understanding comprehends every mite of a departed
carcase; this will not appear impossible, nor irrational, to an , upon
a serious consideration, of this excellency in God. The gody is
perished, the matter of ‘it hath been since clothed with different
orms and figures; part of it hath been made the body of a worm,
part of it returned to the dust that hath been blown away by the
wind; part of it hath been concocted in the bodies of canibals, fish,
ravenous beasts; the spirits have evaporated into air, part of the
blood melted into water; what, then, is the matter of the body an-
nihilated? is that wholly perished? no; the foundation remains,
though it hath put on a variety of forms; the body of Abel, the
first man that died, nor the body of Adam, are not, to this day, re
duced to nothing; indeed, the quantity and the quality of those
bodies have been lost by various changes they have past through
since their dissolution; but the matter, or substance of them, re-
mains entire, and is not capable to be destroyed by all those trans-
forming alterations, in so long a revolution of time. The body of
a man in his infancy and his old age, if it were Methuselah’s, is the
same in the foundation in those multitude of years; though the
quantity of it be altered, the quality different; though the color
and other things be chan ed in it, the matter of this body remains
the same among all the algterations after death. And can it be so
mixed with other natures and creatures, as that it is past finding
out by an infinite understanding? Can any particle of this matter
escape the eye of Him that makes and beholds all those various

