472 cnnurocx ON 'mn s'rrnIBU'r:as.
alterations, and where every mite of the substance of those bodies
is particularly lod ed, so as that he cannot comliast it together again
for a habitation 0? that soul, that many a year fore fied from it ?“
Since the knowledge of God is infinite, and his providence exten-
sive over the least as well as the .greatest parts of the world, he
must needs know the least as well as the greatest of his creatures in
their beginnindg, progress, and dissolution; all the forms through
which the bo 'es of all creatures roll, the particular instants ot
time, and the particular place when and where those changes are
made, they are all present with him; and, therefore, when the revo-
lution of time allotted by him for the reunion of souls and deceased
bodies is come, it cannot be doubted but, out of the treasures of his
knowledge, he can call forth every part of the matter of the bodies
of men, om the first to the last man that expired, and strip it of'
all those forms and figures which it shall then have, to compact it
to be a lodging for that soul which before it entertained; and thou h
the bodies of men have been devoured by wild beasts in the eargi,
and Hsh in the sea, and beenllodged in the stomachs of barbarous
men-eaters, the matter is not lost. There is but little of the food
we take that is turned into the substance of our own bodies; that
which is not proper for noluishment, which is the greatest part, is
separated, an concocted, and re'ected; whatsoever objections are
made, are answered by this attrihute. Nothing hinders a God of
infinite knowledge from discerning every particle of the matter,
wheresoever it is disposed; and since he hath an eiye to discern, and
a hand to recollect and unite, what diiiiculty is t ere in believing
this article of the christian faith? he that questions this reveale
truth of the resurrection of the bod , must question God’s omnia
cience as well as his omni tence andy power.
Instruct. 5. What semblialhce of reason is there to expgct a justifi-
cation in the sight of God by anything in ourselves? there any
action done by any of us, but upon a scrutin we may find fiaws
and deficiency in it? What then ? shall not this perfection of God
discern them? the motes that escape our eyes cannot escape his (1
John iii. 20): “ God is greater than our hearts, and knows a things ;”
so that it is in vain for any man to Hatter himself with the rectitude
of any work, or enter into any debate with him who can bring a
thousand articles against us, out of his own innnite records, unknown
to us, and unanswerable by us. If conscience, a representative or
counterpart of God’s ornniscience in our own bosoms, find nothing
done by us, but in a copy short of the original, and beholds, if not
blurs, yet imperfections in the best actions, God must much more
discern them; we never knew a copy equall exact with the origi-
nal. If our own conscience be as a thousandywitnessea, the knowl-
edge of God is as millions of witnesses against us; if our corruption
be so great, and o\u° holiness so low, in our own eyes, how much
greater must the one, and how much meaner must the other, appear
in the eyes of God? God hath an unerrin eye to see, as well asan
unspotted holiness to hate, and an unbribaile justice to punish; he
wants no more understanding to know the shortness of our actions,
' Daills, Serin. 15. pp. 21-24s

