~ ON cons xNowLr.nen. 473
than he doth holiness to enact, and power to execute, his laws; nay,
suppose we could recollect many actions, wherein tnere were no spot
visi le to us, the consideration of this attribute should scare us from
resting upon any or all of them, since it is the Lord that, by a pierc-
ing eye, sees and judges according to the heart, and not according to
appearance. The least crookedness of a stick, not sensible to an
acute eye, yet will aéppear when laid to the line; and the impurity
of a counterfeit me be manifest when applied to the touchstoue;
sowill the best action of any mere man in the world, when it comes
to be measured in God’s knowledge by the straight line of his law.
Let every man, therefore, as Paul, though he should know nothing
by himself, think not himself therefore justified; since it is the Lord,
who is of an infinite understanding, that judgeth (1 Cor. iv. 4).
A man may be justified in his own sight, “ but not any living man
can be justified in the sight of Godl’ (Ps. cxliii. 2); in his sight,
whose eye pierceth into our unknown secrets and frames: it was,
therefore, well answered of a ood man u n his death bed, being
asked “What he was afraid of T’ “ I have liiobored," saith he, “ with
all my strength to observe the commands of God; but since I am a
man, I am ignorant whether my works are acceptable to God, since
God judges in one manner, and I in another manner.” Let the con-
sideration therefore of this attribute, make us join with J ob in his
resolution (Job ix. 21): “Though we were perfect, yet would we
not know our own souls.” I would not stand up to plead any of
my virtues before God. Let us, therefore, look after another right-
eousness, wherein the exact eye of the Divine omniscience, we are
sure, can discern no stain or crookedness.
Instruct. 6. What honorable and adoring thoughts ought we to
have of God for this perfection! Do we not honor a man that is
able to predict? do we not think it a great part of wisdom? Have
not all nations regarded such a faculty as a character and a mark of
divinity? There is something more ravishing in the knowledge of
future things, both to the person that knows them, and the erson
that hears them, than there is in any other kind of knowledge;
whence the greatest prophets have been accounted in the greatest
veneration, and men have thought it a wa to glory, to divine and
predict. Hence it was that the devils anti, pagan oracles gained so
much credit; u on this foundation were the established, and the
enemies of mankind owned for a true God ;-T say, from the predic-
tion of future things, though their oracles were often ambiguous,
many times false; yet those poor heathens framed many ingenious
excuses to free their adored mgods from the charge of falsity and im~
gesture: and shall we not ore the true God, the God of srael, the
od blessed for ever, for this incommunicable property, whereby he
dies above the wings of the wind, the understandings of men and
cherubims?1 Consider how great it is to know the thoughts and
Intentions, and works of one man, from the beginnin to the end of
his life; to foreknow all these before the being of tghis man, when
he was lodged afar off in the loins of his ancestors, yea, of Adam '
how much greater is it to foreknow and know the thoughts and
' Sabund. Theo] Natural. Tit. 84. somewhat changed.

