474 cnanrrocx ON 'ma Arrnrsurns.
works of three or four men, of a whole village or neighborhood! It
is (greater still to know the imaginations and actions of such a multi-
.tu e of men as are contained in London, Paris, or Constantinople;
how much greater still to know the intentions and practices, the
clandestine contrivances of so many millions that have, do, or shall
swarm in all quarters of the world, every person of them having
millions of thoughts, desires, designs, affections, and actions! Let
this attribute, then, make the blessed God honorable in our eves,
and adorable in all our affections; especially since it is an excellen-
cy which hath so lately discovered itself, in bringing to light the
hidden things of darkness, in opening, and in part confounding, the
wicked devices of bloody men. Especially let us adore God for it,
and admire it in God, since it is so necessary a perfection, that with~
out it the goodness of God had been impotent, and 'could not have
relieved us; for what help can a distressed person expect from a
man of the sweetest disposition and the strongest arm, if the eyes
which should discover the danger, and direct the defence and rescue,
were closed u by blindness and darkness? Adore God for this
wonderful perfection. ~
Instruct. 7. In the consideration of this excellent attribute, what
low thoughts should we have of our own knowledge, and how hum-
ble ought we to be before God! There is nothing man is more apt
to be proud of than his knowledge; it is a perfection he glories in;
but if our own knowledge of the little outside and barks of things
puffs us up, the consideration of the infiniteness of God’s knowledge
should abate the tumor: as our beings are nothing in regard to the
infiniteness of his essence, so our knowledge is nothing in regard of
the vastness of his understanding. We have a spark of being, but
nothing to the heat ofthe sun; we have a drop of knowledge, but
nothing to the Divine ocean. What a vain thing is it for a shallow
brook to boast of its streams before a sea, whose depths are unfathom-
able! As it is a vanit to brag of our strength, when we remember
th<;(power of God, andy of our prudence, when we glance upon the
wi om of God, so it is no less a vanity to boast of our knowledge,
when we think of the understanding and knowledge of God. How
hard is it for us to know anything ly Too much noise deafens us, and
too much liffht dazzles us; too much distance alienates the object
from us, and too much nearness bars up our sight from bcholding it
When we think oluselves to be near the knowledge of a thing, as
a shi to the haven, a puff of wind blows us away, and the object
which we desired to know eternally flies from us; we burn with a
desire of knowledge, and et are oppressed with the darkness of ig-
norance; we spend our dyays more in dark Egypt, than in enlight-
ened Goshen. In what narrow bounds is all the knowledge of the
most intelli ent persons included != How few understand the exact
harmony og their own bodies, the nature of the life they have in com-
mon with other animals! Who understands the nature of his own
faculties, how he knows, and how he wills; how the understanding
proposeth, and how the will embraceth; how his spiritual soul is
united to his material body; what the nature is of the operation of
I Pascall, p. 170. I Amyrant. de Prwdest. pp. 116, 117. somewhat changed.

