ON GOD’S xsowmmes. 475
:mr spirits? Nay, who understands the nature of his own body, the
oliices of his senses, the motion of his members, how they come to
obev the command ofthe will, and a thousand other things? What
a vain, weak, and ignorant thing is man, when compared with God!
yet there is not a greater pride to   found among devils, than among
ignorant men, with a _litt e, very little, flashy knowledge. Ignorant
man is as proud as if he knew as God. As the consideration of
God’s omniscience should render him honorable in our eyes, so it
should render us vile in our own. God, because of his knowledge,
is so far from disdaininlg his creatures, -that his omniscience is a min-
ister to his goodnem o knowledge that we are possessed of should
make us swell with too high a conceit of ourselves, and a disdain of
others. We have infinitely more of ignorance than knowledge.
Letustherefore remember, in all our thoughts of God, that he is
God, and we are men; and therefore ought to be humble, as becomes
men, and ignorant and foolish men,   be; as weak creatures should
he low before an Almi hty God, and impure creatures before a holy
God, false creatures beire a faithful God, finite creatures before an
infinite God, so should ignorant creatures before an all-knowinfr God.
All God’s attributes teach adrni1'ing thoughts of God, and low
thoughts of ourselves. '
hzstruct. 8. It may inform us how much this attribute is injured in
the world. The first error after Adam’s eating the forbidden fruit
was the denial of this, as well as the omnipresence of God, (Gen.
  10,_) “ I heard thy voice in the garden, and I hid myself ;” as if
the thickness of the trees could screen him from the eye of his Crea-
tor. And after Cain’s murder, this is the first perfection he affronts,
(Gen. iv. 9), “Where is Abel, thy brother ” saith God. How
roundly doth he answer, “I know not l” as if God were as weak as
man, to_be put off with a lie. Man doth as naturally hat/e this per-
fection as much as he cannot naturally but acknowledge it; he
Wishes   stripped of this eminency, that he might be incapable  
be an inspector of his crimes, and a searcher of the closets of his
heart. In wishing him deprived of this, there is a hatred of God
himself; for it is a loathing an essential property of God, with-
out wbich he would be a pitiful Governor of the world. What a
kind of God should that be, of a sinner’s wishing, that had wanted
e es to see a crime, and righteousness to punish itl` The want of
this wnsideration of this attribute, is the cause of all sin in the world
(Hos. vii. 2), “They consider not in their hearts that I remember
all their wickedness ;" they speak not to their hearts, or make any
reflection upon the infiniteness of my knowledge; it is a high con-
tempt of God, as if he were an ido , a senseless stock or stone; in
all evil practices this is denied. We know God sees all things, yet
we live and walk as if he knew nothing. We call him omniscient,
and live as if hebwege ignorant; we say he is all eye, yet act as if
e were whollv lin . `
In particular, this attribute is injured, by invadicrgg the peculiar
rights of it, by presuming on it, and by a practi denial of it.
First, By invading the peculiar rights of it. 1. By invocation of
creatures. Praying to saints, by the Romanists, is a disparagement

