476 cnnnsocx on frm: xrrnmvrss.
to this divine excellency; he that knows all things, is -only fit tc
have the petitions of men presented to him; péayer sup(poseth an
omniscient Being, as the object of it; no other mg but od ought
to have that honor acknowledged _to_it; no understanding but his is
infinite; no other presence but his is everywhere; to implore any
deceased creature for a. supply of our W8»l1l`»9,1B to own m thema
property of the Deity, and make them deities that.were but men;
and increase their glory by a diminution of God’s honor, in ascribing
that perfection to creatures which belongs only to God. Alas! they
are so far from understanding the desires of our souls, that they know
not the words of our lips: it is against reason to address our suppili
cations to them that neither understand us nor discern us (
lxiii. Mig, “Abraham is ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledges us
not.” he Jews never called u on Abraham, though the covenant
was made with him for the whole seed; not one departed saint for
the whole four thousand years, between the creation of the world,
and the coming of Christ, was ever (prayed to by the Israelites, or
ever imagined to have a share in Go ‘s omniscience: so that to pray
to St. Peter, St. Paul, much less to St. Roch, St. Swithin, St. Martin,
St. Francis, &c. is such a superstition, that hath no footing in the
Scripture. To desire the prayers of the living, with whom we have
a communion, who can understand and grant our desires, is founded
upon a. mutual charity ; but to implore pprsons that are absent, at a
great distance from us, with whom we ave not, nor know how to
have, any commerce, sirpposeth them, in their departure, to have put
off humanity, and commenced gods, and endued with some part of
the Divinity to understand our petitions; we are, indeed, to cherish
their memories, consider their examples, imitate their graces, and ob,
serve their doctrines; we are to follow them as saints, but not elevate
them as gods, in ascribin to them such a knowledge, which is the
only necessary right of their and our common Creator# As the in-
vocation of saints mingles them with Christ, in the exercise of his
office, so it sets them equal with God in the throne of his omniscienoe,
as if they had as much credit with God as Christ, by way of media-
tion, and as much knowled e of rnen’s aifairs as God himself Om-
niscience is peculiar to god, and incommunieable to any crea-
ture; it is the foundation of all religion, and therefore one of the
choicestia/cts of it; viz. prayer and invocation. To direct our vows
and petitions to any one else, is to invade the peculiarity of this
pirlfection in God, andto rank some creatures in a partnership with
` in it.
_ 2. This attributeis injured by curiosity of knowledge; especially
of future things, which God hath not discovered in natural causes,
or supernatural revelation. It is a. common error of men’s spiritsw
aspire to know what God would have hidden, and to pry into Divine
secrets; and many men are more willing to remam without the
knowled e of those thin which may, with a little industry, be at-
tained, than be divesteds of the curlosit of inquiring into those
things which are above their reach; it is hence that some have laid
aside the studyof the common remedies of nature to End out the
° Daille, Melang. Part Il., pp. 560, 561.

