on cons xnowmanon. 1177
philcsopher’s stone, which scarce any ever yet attempted but sunk
in the enterprise.” From this inclination to new the most abstruse
and diicult things, it is that the horrors of magic and -Vanities of
astrology havesprung, whereby men have thoug t to End, in a com-
merce with devils and the jurisdiction of the stars, the events of
their lives, and the disposal of states and kingdoms. Hence, also,
arose those multitudes of ways of divination, invented among the
heathen, and practised too commonly in these ages of the world.
This is an invasion of God’s prerogative, to whom secret things be-
long (Dent. xxix. 29% “Secret things belong unto the Lord our God,
but revealed things long to us and our children.” It is an intol-
erable boldness to attempt to-fathom those, the knowledge whereof
God hath reserved to himself, and to search that which God will
have to ass our understandings, whereby we more truly envy
God a knsd¥1lvl)edge su rior to our own, than we, in Adam, imagined
that he envied us. Xinbition is the greatest cause of this; ambition
to be accounted some great thing among men, by reason of a knowl-
g estranged from thecommoni mass of mankind, but more espe»
` ly that soaring pride to be e%ual with God, which lurks in our
nature ever since the fall of our rst parents: this is not yct~ laid
adde by men, though it was the first thing that embroiled the world
with the wrath of od. Some think a curiosity of knowledge was
the cause of the fall of devils; I am sure it was the fall of Adam,
and is et the crime of his posterity; had he been contented to know
what (fad had furnished him with, neither he nor his osterity had
smarted under the venom of the serpent’s breath. Alhcurious and
bold inquiries into thin not revealed are an attempt upon the
throne of God, and are hsoth sinful and pernicious, like to glaring
u n the sun, where, instead of a greater acuteness, we meet with
bghdness, and too dearly buy our i norance in attempting a super
fluous knowledge. As God s knowdedge is destined to the govern-
ment of the world, so should ours be to the advantage of the -world;
and not de enerate into vain ulations.
3. This étribute is injuredslbe; swearing by creatures. To sweat
by the name of God, in a righteous cause,° when we are lawfully
called to it by a. superior power, or for the necessary decision of some
controversy, for the ends of charity and justice, is an act of religion,
and a part of worship, founded upon, and directed to, the honor of
this attribute; by it we acknow edge the glory of his infallible
knowledge of all things; but to swear by false gods, or by any crea-
ture, is b asphemous~ it sets the creature in the fplace o ` God, and
invests it in that which is the peculiar honor o the Divinit ; for
when any swear truly, they intend the invocation of an inihllible
Witness, and the bringing an undoubted testimony for what they do
asert: while, an v, therefore, swear by a creature, or a false od,
the profess that that creature, or that which they esteem to he a
god: is an infallible witnem, which to be is only the right of God -
they attribute to the creature that which is 'the property of God
alone, to know the heart, and to be a witness whether they speak
true or no: and this was accounted, by all nations, the true design
5 Amyrant. Moral. Tom. III. p. '75, sh. ` ° Cljetm, Bum. pi. 190.

