478 cnannocx ON THE yrrnrsurss.
of an oath. As to swear falsely is a plain denial of the all-knowledge
of God, so to swear by any creature is to set the creature upon the
throne of God, in ascribing that perfection to the creature which
sovereignly belongs to the Creator; for it is not in the power of any
to witness to the truth of the heart, but of him that is the searcher
of hearts.
4. We sin against this attribute by censluing the hearts of others
An open crime, indeed, falls under our cognizance, and therefore
under our judgment; for whatsoever falls under the authority of
man to be punished, falls under the djudgrnent of man to be censured,
as an act contrary to the law of Go ; yet, when a censure is built
upon the evil of the act which is obvious to the view, if we take a
step farther to 'ud ge the heart and state, we leave the revealed rule
of the law, and ambitiously erect a tribunal equal with God’s, and
usurp a judicial power, pertaining onlyto the Supreme Governor of
the world, and consequently pretend to be possesw of the perfec-
tion of omniscience, which is necessary to render him capable ofthe
exercise of that sovereign authority: for it is in res ect of his do-
minion that God hath the supreme right to judge; and) in respect of
his knowledge that he hath an incommunicable capacity to judge.
In an action that isdoubtful, the good or evil whereof de nds only
upon God’s determination, and wherein much of the judgment de-
pends upon the discerning the intention of the agent, we cannot
judge any man without a manifest invasion of God’s peculiar right:
such actions are to be tried by God’s knowledge, not by our surmises;
God only is the master in such cases, to whom a rson stands or
falls (Rom. xiv. 4). "I‘ill the true principle and endif of an action be
known by the confession of the party acting it, a true jud ent of
it is not in our power. Principles and ends lie deep and   from
us; and it is intolerable pride to pretend to have a joint ke with
God to open that cabinet which he hath reserved to himself? Be-
sides the violation of the rule of charity in misconstrujng actions
which may be great and generous in their root and principle, we in-
vade God s right, as if our ungrounded imaginations and conjectures
were in joint commission with this sovereign perfection; and thereby
we become usurping judges of evil thoughts (games ii. 4). It is,
therefore, a boldness worthy to be punishe by t e judge, to assume
to ourselves the capacity and authority of him who is the only Judge:
for as the execution of the Divine law, for the inward violation of
it, belongs only to God, so is the right of judging a prerogative be-
longing only to his omniscience; his right is, therefore, invaded, if
we pretend to a knowledge of it. This humor of men the apostle
checks, when he saith (1 Cor. iv. 5), “He that judgeth me is the
Lord; therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come,
who will manifest the counsels of all hearts.” It is not the time yet
for God to erect the tribunal for the trial of men’s hearts, and the
principles of their actions; he hath reserved the glorious discovery
of this attribute for another season: we must not, therefore, presume
to judge of the counsels of men’s hearts till God hath revealed them
by opening the treasures of his own knowledge; much less are we
to judge any man’s final condition. Manasseh may mritice to devils,

