‘ .on eon's KNOWLEDGE. 479
and unconverted Paul tear the church in pieces; but God had mercy
on them, and called them. The actions may be censured, not the
state, for we know not whom God may call. In censuring men, we
may doubly imitate the devil, in a false accusation of the' brethren,
as well as in an ambitious usurpation of the rights of God.
Secondly, This perfection is injured by ,presuming u on it, or
making an ill use of it. Asin the neglect d prayer or she suppl
of men’s wants, because God knows them already, so that that which
is an encouragement to prayer, they make the reason of restraining
it before God. Prayer is not to a minister knowledge to God. but
to acknowledge this admirable perfection of the Divine nature. If
God did not know, there were indeed no use of prayer; it would be
as vain a thing to send up our prayers to heaven, as to im lore the
senseles statue, or picture of a plrince, for a. protection. &Ve pra
because God knows: for though e knows our wants with a knowli
edge of vision, yet he will not know them with a knowledge of
Supplliy, till he be sought unto (Matt. vi. 32, 33; vii. 11.) A the
exce encies of God are ground of adoration; and this excellency
is the ground of that part of worship we call prayer. H' God be
to be worshipped. he is to be called upon: invocations of his name
in our necessities is a chief act of worship; whence the temple, the
place of solemn worshi , was not called the house of sacrifice, but
the house of prayer. lgrayer was not appointed for God’s informa-
tion, as if he were ignorant, but for the expression of our desires;
not to furnish him with a knowledge of what we want, but to mani-
fest to him, by some rational sign convenient to our nature, our
sense of that want, which he knows by himselfi So that prayer
is not designed to acquaint God with our wants, but to ex ress the
desire of a remedy of our wants. God knows our wants, but hath
not madg promises barely to our wants, but to our asking, that his
omniscience in hearing, as well as his sufficiency in supplying, may
have a sensible honor in olu' acknowledgments and receipts. , It is
therefore an ill use of this excellency of God to neglect prayer to
him as needless, because he knows already.
Thirdly. This perfection of God is wronged by a ractical denial
of it. It is the language of every sin, and so God takes it when he
comes to reckon witn men for their impieties. U on this he charges
the greatness of the iniquity of Israel, the overtlbwiug of blood in
the land, and the perverseness of the city: “They say, the Lord
hath forsaken the earth, and the Lord sees not" (Ezek. ix. 9): they
deny his e es to see, and his resolution to punish.
1. It will ap ar, in forbearing sin from a sense of man’s knowl-
edge, not of gifs. Open impieties are refrained because of the
gyoetof man, but secret sins are not checked because of the eye of
Wickedness is committed in darkness, that is restrained in
light, as if darkness were as great a clog to God’s eyes as it is to
ours; as though his e es were mufiled with the curtains of the
night (Job xxii. 14.) This, it is likel , was at the root of Jonah’ 
llight; he might have some secret tllought that his Master’s eye
could not follow him, as though the close hatches of a ship could
secure him from the knowledge of God, as well as the sides ofa ship

