s
§
\., ..
s
\   2;
\s?s.\§.
%*~E§\2'
\s§§§;§
 
\§
so
s  
 
 
  5
\&*\=
\  
;\ *
\i\\
s\\
;\
 
480 cnsnsocx ON 'rim yrrnmnras.
could from the dashing of the waves. What lies most up
conscience when it is graciously wounded, is least regarded <
temned when it is basely inclined. David’s heart smote h
only for his sin in the gross, but as aiticularly cirumstantia
the commission of it in the sight of god (Ps. 11. 4): “ A aim
thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in th sight.”
knew the reason of Uriah’s death but myself, andyhecause
knew it not, I neglected any reffard to this Divine eye.
Jacob’s sons used their brother Jooseph so barbarously the
care to hide it from 'their father, but cast away all thoughts c
from whom it could not be concealed. Doth not the presem
child bridle a man from the act of a longed-for sin, when tl
of God is of no force torestrain him, as if God’s knowled
of less value than the sight of a little boy or irl, as if ~a chs
could see, and God were blind? He that willforbear an uni
action for fear of an informer, will not forbear it for God
God’s omniscience were not as full an intelligencer to him, n
can be an informer to a magistrate. As we acknowledge the
of men seeing us when we are whamed to commit a 'filthy
in their view, so we discover the power of God seein us, wl
regard not what we do before the light of his eyes. gccrets
more against God than open: o en sins ‘are a ainst the law;
sins are against the law, and this prime periction of his 1
The majesty of God is not only violated, but the omnisciel
God disowned, who is the onl witness; we must, in all of
either imagine him to be witllout eyes to behold us, or with
arm of justice to punish us. And oiten it is, I believe, ix
cases, that if any thoughts of God’s knowledge strike upon
they quickly damp them, lest they should begin to know wh:
fear, and fear that they might not eat 'their pleasant sinful 'io
2. It a pears in partial confessions of sin before God. .
a free, full? and ingenious confession, we offer a due lory1
attribute, so b a feigned and curtailed confession, we ciny h
honor of it: fhr, though by any confession we in part own l
be a. Sovereign and Judge, yet by a half and pared ackno'
ment, we own him to be no more than a humane and ignorai
Achan’s full confession gave God the glory of his omniscience
ifested in the discovery of his secret crime. “ And Joshua sai-
Achan, My son, give, I pray thee, glory to the Lord God of
and make confession unto h1m” (Joshua vii. 19.) And so (Ps.
“Whose oifereth praise gloriiieth me," or confession, as the wo
niiieth, in which sense I would rather take it, referring to this
ute, which God seems to tax sinners with the denial of (gfeer. 2
ling them that he would open the records of their sins fore
an indict them articular y for every one. It, therefore, you
glorify this attr£>ute, which shall one day break open you
sciences, offer to me a sincere confewion. When David spec
the happiness of a pardoncd man, he adds, “in whose sp.1'i1
is no <fui1e,"d not meaning a sincerity in general, but an inm
in conlfessing. To excuse, or extenuate sin, is to deny ci
4 Pu. xxxii. 1, 2, Camaro. p. 89, col 1.

