, ON eoirs KNOWLEDGE. 481
knowledge of the depths of our deceitful hearts: when we will
mince it rather than aggravate it; lay it upon the inducements of
others, when it was the tree act of om' own wills, study shifts to
deceive our Judge; this is to speak lies of him, as the expression
is (Hos. vii. 13), as though he were a God easy to be cheated, and
knew no more than we were willing to declare. What did Saul’s
transferrin his sin from himself to the people (1 Sam. xv. 15), but
charve God with a defect in this attribute? When man could not
be lie God, in his knowledge, he would fancy a God like to him
in his ignorance, and imagine a possibility of hiding himself from
his knowledge. And all men tread, more or less, in their father’s
steps, and are fruitful to devise distinctions to disgpise errors in
doctrine, and excuses to alliate errors in practice: t is crime Job
removes from himself when he speaks ot ,several acts of his sin-
cerity (Job xxxi. 33): “If I covered my transgressions as Adam,
by hiding my iniquit in my bosom :” I hid not any of my sins in
my own conscience, but acknowledged God a witness to them, and
gave him the glory of his knowledge by a free confession. I did
not conceal it hom God as Adam id, or as men ordinaril do; as
if God could understand no mdre of their secret crimes tlian they
will let him, and had no more sense of their faults than they would
furnish him with. As the 'first rise of confession is the owning of
this attribute (for the justice of God would not scare men, nor the
holiness of God awe them, without a sense of his knowledge of
their iniquities), so to drop out some fragments of confession, dis-
cover some sins, and conceal others, is a plain denial of the exten-
siveness of the Divine knowledge.
3. Itis discovered by putting God off with an outside worship.
Men are often ilatterers of God, and think to bend him by formal
glavering devotions, without the concurrence of their hearts; as
though he could not pierce into the darkness of the mind, but did
as little know us as one man knows another. There are such things
as feigned lips (Ps. xvii. 1), a contradiction between the heart and the
tongue, a clamor in the voice, and scofiing in the soul; a crying out
to God, thou art my Father, the guide of my youth, and yet speak-
ing and doing evil to the utmost of ouivpower (Jer. iii. 4, 5). As if
God could be imposed upon by fawning retences; and like old
Isaac, take Jacob or Esau, and be cozenedb the smell of his gar-
ments: as if he could not discern the negro heart under an angel’s
b. Thus Ephraim, the ten tribes, a ostatized from the true re-
' `on, would go with their flocks and their herds to seek the Lord
( os. v. 6), would sacrifice multitudes of sheep and heifers, which
was the main outside of the Jewish religion ; only with their flocks
and their herds, not with their hearts, with those inward qualifica-
tions of deep humiliation and repentance for sin; as though outside
lppearances limited God’s observation, whereas God had told them
be ore (ver. 3), that he “knew Ephraim, and Israel was not hid from
him." Thus to do is to put a cheat upon God, and think to blind
his all-seeing eye, and therefore it is called deceit (Ps. lxxviii. 36).
They did Hatter him with their mouths. The word rms signifies to
deceive, as well as to flatter; not that they, or any else, can deceive
vol.. 1.-31

