482 cnsmvocx on 'ras Armmurss.
God, but it im lies an endeavor to deceive him, by a. few dissemin-
linglwords and) gestures, or an imagination that God was satisfied
wit bare professions, and would not concern himself in a. further
inquisition. This is an unworthy conceit of God, to fancy that we
can satisfy for inward sins, and avert approaching judgments by
external offerings, by a. loud voice with a false heart, as ` God (like
childrip? would be pleased with the glittering _of an empty shell, or
the ra ing of stones, the chinkling of -money, a mere voice and
crying, without inward frames and intentions of service.
4. n cherishing multitudes of evil thoughts. No man but would
blush for shame, if the base, impure, slovenly thoughts, either in or
out of duties of worship, were visible to the understandingof man;
how diligent would he be to curb his luxuriant and unworthy fancies,
as well as bite in his words! but when we give the reins to the mo-
tions of our hearts, and suifer them to run at random withoutacurh,
it is an evidence we are not concerned for their fhlling under the
notice of the eye of God; and it argues a very weak belief of this
perfection, or scarce any belief' at al . Who can think any man’s
eart, possessed with a sense of this infinite excellency, that suiers
his mind, in his meditations on God, to wander into every sty, and
be picking up stones upon a dunghill? What doth it intimate, but
that those thoughts are as invisib e, or unaudible to God, as they are
to men without the garments of words ?° When a man thinks of
obscene things, his own natural notions, if revived, would, tell him
that God discerns what he thinks, that the depths of his heart am
open to him: and the voice of those notions are-defaee those vain
imaginations out of your minds. But what is done? Men cast
away rational light, muster up eonceits that God sees them not,
knows them not, and so sink into the 'puddle of their sordid imagin-
ations, as though they remained in darkness to God. I might fur-
ther instance. In omissions zy' prayer, which arise sometimes from a
fiat atheism: who will call upon a God, that believes no such Being?
or from partial atheism, either a denial of God’s sufiieiency to help,
or of his omniscience to k ow, as if God were like the statue of
Jupiter in Crete, framed witlhout ears. In the hypoc'r12z`cal pretevwes qf
men, to exempt them from th! service God calls them to. When men
pretend one thing and intend another: this lurks in the veins some-
times of the best men; sometimes it ariseth from the fear of man;
when men are more afraid of the wer of man, than of dissembling
with the Almighty, it will retenldoa virtue to cover a secret wile,
and choose the tongue of tiie crafty as the expression in Job (eh.
xv. 5). The case is plain in Moses, who, when ordered to undertake
an eminent service, pretends a want of eloq*uenee, and an ungrate-
ful “slowness of speech" (Exod. iv. 10%. 'lhis generous soul, that
before was not afraid to discover himse f in the midst of Egypt for
his countrymen, answers sneakingly to God, and would veil his
carnal fear with a pretence of insufhcienc and humility; “Who
am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh (Exod. iii. 11)? He could not
well allege an inability to go to Pharaoh, since he had had an edu-
cation in the Egyptian learning, which rendered him capable to sp-
‘ ° Drexel. Nicetas, lib ii cap. 10, p. 857.

