' ON cons KNOWLEDGE, ' 488
mt court. God at last uncaseth him, and shews it all to be a
` ` ulation, and whatsoever was the pretence, fear lay at the bot-
tom. He was afraid of his life upon his appearance before Pharaoh,
from whose face he had fled upon the slaying the Egyptians; which
God intimates to him (Exod. iv. 19), “Go, and ret\u°n into Egy t,
for all the men are dead which sought thy life." What doth this
carriage speak, but as if God’s eye were not upon our inward parts,
as though we could lock him out of our hearts, that cannot be shut
out from any creek of the hearts of men and angels?
Use II. is of comfort. It is a ground of great comfort under the
present d' nsation wherein we are; we have heard the doctrinal
part, andlgdid hath given us the experimental part of it in his spe-
cial providence this da , upon the stage of the world! And, bless-
ed be God, that he hatli given us a ground of comfort, without going
out of our ordinary course to fetch it, whereby it seems to be pecu-
liarly of God’s ordering for us.
1. It is a comfort in all the clandestine contrivances of men against
the church. His eyes pierce as far as.the depths of hell. ,Not one
of his ch1u°ch’s adversaries lies in a mist; all are as plain as the stars
which he numbers: “ Mine adversaries are all before thee” (Ps. lxix.
19), more exactly known to thee than I can recount them. It is a
prophecy of Christ, wherein Christ is brought in speaking to God
of is own and the churoh’s enemies: he comforts himself with this,
that God hath his eye upon every particular person among his ad-
versaries: he knows where they repose themselves, when they go
out to consult, and when they come in with their resolves. He dis-
eems all the rage that spirits their hearts, in what corner it lurks,
how it acts; 'all the disordss, motions of it, and every object of that
rage; he cannot be deceiv by the closest and subtlest person.
Thus God speaks concernin Sennacherib and his host against J eru-
salem (Isa. xxxvii. 28, 29k After he had s oke of the forming of
his church, and the Wea ness of it, he adds, “But I know thy
abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and thy rage against
me. Because thy rage a alnst me, and thy tumult, is come up into
mine ears, therefore wig I put my hook in thy nose, and my
bridle in thy lips, and I will turn thee back,” &o. He knows all the
methods of the counsels, the stages they had laid, the manner of the
execution of their designs, all the way  whither they turned them-
selves, and would use them no better than men do devouring fish
and untamed beasts, with a hook in the nose, and a bridle in the
mouth. Those statesmen (in Isa. xxix. 15) thought their contriv-
ancestoo deep for God to fathom, and too close for God to frus-
trate; “they seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord; surely
yoiu- turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the pot-
¥er’s clay,” of no more force and understanding than a potters ves-
Bel, which understands not its own form wrought by t e artificer,
D0r the use it is put to by the buyer and possessor; or shall be es-
teemed as a gnttefs vessel, that can be as easily flung back into the
mass from w ence it was taken, as preserved in the figure it is now
Clldued with. No secret designer is shrouded from od’s sight, or
‘ Nov. 1678, when the Popish Plot was discovered: `

