484 cnaanocx ON THE Arrninurns. \
can be sheltered from God’s arm; he understands the venom of
their hearts better than we can feel it, and discovers their inward
f1u‘y more plainly than we can see the sting or teeth of aviper when
the f are opened for mischief ; and to what purpose doth God know
and) see them, but in order to deliver his eople from them in his
own due time? “I know their sorrow, and) am come down to deliver
them (Exod. iii. 7, 8). The walls of Jerusalem are continually be-
fore him; he knows, therefore, all that would undermine and de-
molish them; none can hurt Zion by any ignorance or inadvertency
in God. It is observable, that our Saviour, assuming to himself a
different title in every epistle to the seven churches, doth ‘partic-
ularly ascribe to himself this of knowledge and wrath in at to
Thyatira, an emblem or descri tion of the Romish state (Rev. ii.
18): “And unto the angel of tile ch1u°ch of Thyatira write, Thme
things, saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like a flame of fire,
and his feet like fine brass.” His e es, like a flame of fire, are of a
piercin nature, insinuating themselves into all the pores and parts
of the body they encounter with, and his feet like brass, to crush
them with, is explained (ver. 23), “I will kill her children with
death, and all the churches shall know that I am he which searches
the reins and the heart, and I will give to every one of you accord-
ing to your works.” He knows every desi of the Romish party,
designed by that church of Thyatira.u iilzebel, there, si ities a
whorish church; such a church as shall act as Jezebel, Ahzgs wife,
who was not only a worshipper of idols, but propagated idolatry in
Israel, slew the prophets, persecuted Elijah, murdered N aboth, the
name whereof signifies prophecy, seized upon his possession. And
if it be said that (ver. 19£t is c iurch wg commen ed fbr her works,
faith, patience, it is true ome did at rst strongly profess Chris-
tianity, and maintained the interest of but afterwar s fellinto the
practice of Jezebel, and committed spiritual adultery: and is she to
e owned for a wife, that now plays the harlot, because she was
honest and modest at her first marriage ? And though she shall be
destroyed, yet not speedily (ver. 22); “I'will cast her into abed,"
seems to intimate the destruction of Jezebel, not to be at once and
speedily, but in a lingering way, and by degrees, as sickness con-
sumes a body.”
2. This perfection of God fits him to be a special object of trust.
If he were forgetful, what comfort could, we have in arty promise?
How could we depend upon him, if he were ignorant o our state?
His compassion to pity us, his readiness to relieve us, his power to
protect and assist us, would be insignificant, without his omniscienoe
to inform his goodness, and direct the arm of his power. This per-
fection is, as it were, God’s office of intelligence: as ou o to your
memorandum-book to know what You are to do, so dbth éod to his
omniscience; this erfection is God’s e e, to acquaint him with the
necessities of his church, and directs all his other attributes in their
exercise for and about his people. You may depend upon his mercy
I For the evidence of it I refer you to Dr. More’s Exposition of the' Seven Churchs
worthy everyolearned and understanding n1an’| reading, and of every sober Bomnnist.
‘ 006. in .

