I
ON cons KNOWLEDGE. 485
that hath promised, and upon his truth to rform; upon his sufii-
ciency to supply you, and his goodness to relive you, and his right-
eousness to reward you; because he hath an infinite understanding
to know you and your wants, you and your services. And without
this knowledge of his, no comfort could be drawn from any other
perfection; none of them could be a sure nail to hang our hopes and
confidence upon. This is that the church alway celebrated (Ps. cv.
7): “He hath remembered his covenant forever, and the word which
he hath commanded to a. thousand enerations ;” and (ver. 42), “He
remembered his holy promise ;” “ind he remembered for them his
covenant” (Ps. cvi. 45). He remembers and understands his cove-
nant, there ore his promise to perform it, and therefore our wants to
supply them.
3. And the rather, because God knows the persons of' all his own.
He hath in his infinite understanding, the exact number off all the in»
dividual persons that belong to him (2 Tim. ii. 19g: “ The Lord knows
them that are his.” He knows all things, because e hath created them ;
and he knows his peo le because he hath not only made them, but also
chose them; he couldp no more choose he knew not what, than he could
create he knew not what; and he knows them under a double title; of
creation as creatures, in the common mass of creation; as new creatures
by a particular act of separation. He cannot be ignorant of' them in
time, whom he foreknew from eternit ; his knowledge in time is
the same he had from eternity ; he forelfnew them that he intended to
gixithe grace of faith unto; and he knows them after they believe,
use he knows his own act, in bestowing grace upon them, and
his own mark and seal wherewith he hath stamped them. No doubt
hut he that “calls the stars of heaven by their names” (Ps. clxvii,
4), knows the number of' those living stars that sparkle in the firma~
ment of his church. He cannot be ignorant of their persons, when
he numbers the hairs of' their heads, and hath registered their names
in the book of life. As he only had an infinite mercy to make the
choice, so he onl hath an infinite understanding to comprehend
their persons. Wi; only know the elect of' God by a moral assurance
in the judgment of charit , when the conversation of men is accord-
lllgtothe doctrine of Godl We have not an infallible knowledge
of them, we may be often mistaken; Judas, a devil, may be judged
by man for a saint, till he be stripped of his disguise. God only
hath an infallible knowledge of them, he knows his own records, and
the counterparts in the hearts of his people; none can counterfeit
his seal, nor can any rase it out. W en the church is either scat~
lered like dust by persecution, or overgrown with superstition and
idolatry, that there is scarce any grain of' true religion appearing, as
lu the time of' Elijah, who complained that he was left alone, as if
the church had been rooted out of that corner of the world (1 Kings
Xix. 14, l8); yet God knew that he had a number fed in a cave, and
had reserved seven thousand men that had reserved the urity of
hisworship, and not bowed their knee to gaali Christqcnew his
sheep, as well as he is known of them; yea, better than they can
know him (John x. 14). History acquaints us, that Cyrus had so
l Turretin’s Sermons, p. 862.

