  on eorrs KNOWLEDGE. 487
5. The consideration of this excellent perfection in God may com-
fort us in our secret prayers, sighs, and works. If God were not of
infinite umderstanding to pierce into the heart, what comfort hath a
poor creature that hath a scantiness of expressions but a heart in a
flame? If God did not understand the heart, faith and prayer,
which are eternal works, would be in vain. How could he give that
mercy our hearts plead for if he were ignorant of our inward atiec-
tions? Hypocrites might scale heaven by lofty expressions, and a
sincere soul come short of the happiness he is prepared for, for want
of flourishing gifts. Prayer is an eternal work; words are but the
garment of' prayer; meditation is the body, and affection the soul
and life of prayer; “Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider m
meditation" (Ps. v. 1). Prayer is a rational act; an act of the ming
not the act of a parrot: prayer is an act of the heart, though the
speaking prayer is the work of the tongue; now God gives ear to the
words, but he considers the meditation of the frame of the~hea.rt.
Consideration is a nrore exact notice than hearing; the act only of
the ear. Were not God of an infinite understanding, and omnis~
cient, he might take line clothes, a lrea of garments, for the man
himself and be ut off by glittering words, without a spiritual frame.
What matter ot? rejoicing is it that we call not upon a deaf and
ignorant idol, but on one' that listens to our secret petitions, to give
them a`   that knows our desires afar oil; and from the infi-
niteness of his mere ,joined with his omniscience, stands read to
give us a return? Plath he not a book of remembrance for tlijem
that fear him, and fortheir sighs and ejaculations to him, as well as
their discourses of him, (Mal. iii. 16); and not only what prayers'
they utter, but what gracious and holy thoughts they have of him
that thought upon his name? Though millions of sup lications be
put up at the same time, yet they have all a distinct file (as I ma
say) in an infinite understanding, which perceives and comprehend;
them all. As he observes millions of sins committed at the same
time, by a vast number of persons, to record them in order to pun-
ishment, so he distinctly discerns an infinite number of cries, at the
Same moment, to register them in order to an answer. ' A sigh
cannot escape an intinite understanding, though crowded among a.
mighty multitude of cries from others, or covered with many unwel-
come distractions in ourselves, no more than a believing touch from
the woman that had the bloody issue could be concealed from Christ,
and be undiscerned from the press of the thronging multitudes: our
Eloans are as audible and intelligible to him as our words, and he
ows what is the mind of his own Spirit, though expressed in no
phiiner language than sobs and heavrngs (Rom. viii. 27). Thus
vid cheers up himself under the neglects of his friends (Ps. xxxviii.
9); “ Lord, rn desire is before thee, and my groaning is not hid
from thee.” Nit a groan of a panting spirit shall be lost, till God hath
lost his knowledge ; not a etrtion forgotten while God hath a record,
nor a tear dried while God) hath a bottle to reserve it in (Ps lvi. 8).
0ur secret works are also known and observed by hirn; not onl
our outward labor, but our inward love in it (Heb. vi. 10). If, with
Isaac, we go privately into the ield to meditate, or secretly “cast

