488 cmnnocx ON rms: smmmvrss.
our bread upon the waters," he keeps his eye u on us to reward us,
and returns the fruit into our own bosoms (ligatt. vi. 4, 6); yea,
though it be but a cu of cold water, from an inward spring of love,
given to a disciple, “ilile sees your works, and our labor, and faith,
and patience; in working them (Rev.   2); alilthe marks of your
industry, an strenpth of your intentions, and willbe as exact at
last, in order to a ue praise, as to open sins, in order to a. just re-
compense (1 Cor. iv. 5).
6. The consideration of this excellent attribute affords comfort in
the afliictions of ood men. He knows their pressures, as well as
hears their cries Exod. iii. 7). His knowledge comes not by infor-
mation from us; ut his compassionate listening to our cries springs
from his own inspection into our sorrows; he is affected with them,
before we make any discovery of them; he is not ignorant of the
best season, when they may be usefully inflicted, and when they
may be profitaby removed. The tribulation and poverty of his
church is not unknown to him (Rev. ii. 8, Ql); “I know th works
and tribulation,” &c. He knows their wor s, and what trihulation
they meet with for him; he sees their extremities, when they are
toiling against the wind and tide of the world (Mark vi. 48); yes,
the natural exigencies of the multitude are not neglected by him;
he discerns to take care of them. Our Saviour considered the three
days’ fasting of his followers, and miraculously provides a dish for
them in the wilderness. No good man is ever out of God’s mind,
and therefore never out of his compassionate care: his eye pieroeth
into their dungeons, and pities their miseries. Joseph ma ' forget
his brethren, and the disciples not know Christ, when he walks upon
the midnight waves and turbulent sea,l‘ but a lion's den cannot oh-
scure a. Daniel from his sight, nor the depths of the whale’s belly
bury Jonah from the Divine understanding: he discerns Peter inhm
chains, and Stephen under the stones of martyrdom; he knows
Lazarus under his tattered rags, and Abel wallowing in his blood;
his eye and knowledge goes along with his people, when they are
transplanted into foreign countries, and sold for slaves into the islands
of thc Grecians, “for he will raise them out of the place” (Joel  
6, 7). He would defeat the hopes of the persecutors, and- applaud
the patience of his people. Ile knows his ple in the tabernacle
of life, and in the valley of the shadow ofxiloeath (Ps. xxiii). He
knows all penal evils, because he commissions and directs them. He
knows the instruments, because they are his sword (Ps. xvii. l3):
and he knows his gracious sufferer because he hath his mark. I e
discerns Job in his anguish, and the devil in his malice. By the
direction of this attribute he orders calamities, and rescues from them.
“ Thou hast seen it, for thou beholdest mischief and spite" (Ps. x.
14). That is the comfort of the psalmist, and the comfort of eveli
be iever, and the ground of committing themselves to God under
the injustice of men. = ,
7. lt is a comfort in all ou? inhrmities. As he knows our sins to
charge them, so he knows the weakness of our nature to pity UB
As his infinite understanding may scare us, because he knows 0‘1l
* Barlow’s Muu’s Refuge, pp. 29, 80.

