ON eorrs KNOWLEDGE. I 489
transgremions, so it may relieve us, because he knows our natural mu-
tability in our first creation   “ he knows our frame, he remembers that
we are dust” (Ps. ciii. 14). Tis the reason of the precedent verses why
he removes our transgression from us, why he is so backward in
punishing, so patient in waiting, so forward in pitying; Why? He
oth not only remember our sins, but remember om' frame 0" form-
ing; what brittle, thou h clear lames we were by creation, how
easy to be crackedl Hge remembers our impotent and weak con-
dition by oorru tion ; what a sink we have of vain imaginations that
remain m us agbr regeneration ; he doth not only consider that we
were made according to his im e, and therefore able to stand, but
that we were made of dust aniligweak matter, and had a sensitive
soul, like that of beasts, as well as an intellectual nature, like that of
angels, and therefore liable to follow the dictates of it, without exact
care and watchfulness. If he remembered only the first, there would
he no issue but indignation ; but the consideration of the latter moves
his compamion. How 'miserable should we be for want of this per-
fection in the Divine nature, whereby God remembers and reflects
upon his past act in our first' frame, and the mindfulness of our con-
dition excites the motion of his bowels to usl Had he lost the
knowledge how he first framed us, did he not still remember the
mutability of our nature, as we were formed and stamped in his
mint,-how much more wretched would our condition be than it is!
lfhis remembrance of our ori 'nal be one ound of his pity, the
sense of his omniscience shouldxbe a gound-rof our comfort in the
stirring of our iniirmities: he remembers we were but dust when he
made us, and yet remembers we are but dust while he preserves and
forbears us.
8. It is some comfort in the fears of some lurking corruption in
our hearts. We know by this whither to address ourselves for the
search and discovery ot`1t: perhaps some blessings we want are re-
tarded; some calamities we understand not the particular cause o£
are inflicted; some petitions we have put up, hang too long for an
answer; and the chariot wheels of Divine goodness move slow, and
are long in coming. Let us beg the aid of this attribute to open to
ns the iemoras, to discover what base affection there is that retards
thefmercies we want, or attracts the affliction we feel, or bars the
door against the return of our supplications. What our dim sight
cannot discover, the clear eyenof God can make visible to us (J ob x.
2): “Show me wherefore thou contendest with me.” .As in want
of pardon, we particularly plead his mercy, and in our desires for
the performance of his promise, we argue with him from his faith~
fulness, so in the fear of any insincerity or hidden corruption we
should implore his omniscience: for as God is a God in covenant,
our God, our God in the whole of his nature, so the perfections of
his nature are erffployed in their several stations, as assistances of
his creatures. is was David’s practice and comfort, after that
large meditation, on the omniscience and omnipresence of God, he
turns his thoughts of it into petitions for the employment of it in the
concerns of his soul, and begs a mercy suitable to the glory of this
perfection (Ps. cxxxix. 23): “ Search me, O God, and try my heart,

