s\ \ 
§\
\ \ ;\i§\
\  
490 ` cnssnoox ON ran srrarsurss.
try me, and know my thoughts ;" dive to the bottom (ver. 24),
see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way
,lastin ." His desire is not barel that God should know him,
woulf be senseless to be of Gbd that he should have mei
faithfulness, or plower, or iznowledge in his nature; but he(
the exercise of t is attribute, in the discovery of himself to hi
in order to his sight of any wickned way, and humiliation fori
reformation of it, in order to his conduct to everlasting life. .
may appeal to this perfection to judge us when the sincerity <
actions is censured by others, so we may implore it to sear
when our sincerity is questioned b ourselves, that our mind
be enlightened   a beam from his ilcnowledge, and the little tl
may be pulled out of their dens in our hearts by the hand
power. In particular, itis our comfort that we can, and om'
sit that we must add ess arti ularl to thi h n
ly - r p c y s, w e we e
so emnly in a'work of self-examination; that we may have a c
eye to direct us than our own, that we may°not mistake bra
gold, or counterfeit graces for true; that nothing that is filth;
t to be cast out, may escape our sight, and preserve its s1
And we need not question the laying at the door of this neglec
not calling in this attribute to our aid, whose proper ofiice it is
may so say, to search and inquire) all the mistakes, ill succes
fruitlessness of our -endeavors in self-examination, because we '
engage in it in the pitiful strength of our own dimness, and 1
the light of God’s countenance, and the assistance of his eye,
can discern what we cannot see, and discover that to us whii
cannot ,manifest to ourselves. It is a comfort to a learner of
to have a skilful e e to overlook his work, and inform him 1
defects. Beg the help of the eye of _Godin all your searche
self-examinations.
9. The consideration of this attribute is comfortable in our assui
oi, and reiiections upon, the (pardon of sin, or seeking of it. A
punishes men for sin ,accor 'ni to his knowledge of them,"
is greater than the knowledge? t eir own consciences have of
so e pardons according to 's knowledge: he pardons not on
cording to our knowledge, but according to his own; he is g
than any man’s heart, to condemn for that which. a maniis at  
ignorant of; and ater than our hearts,.to pardon that w
not at present visilil; to us; he knows that w ich the most v
ful conscience cannot take a survey of : if God had not an infini
derstanding of us, how could we have a perfect and full pardon
him? It would not stand with his honor to pardon he knei
what. He knows what crimes we have to be pardoned, wht
know not all of them ourselves, that stand in need of a gracio
mission; his omniscience beholds everysin to charge it upoi
Saviour. If he knows our sins that are black, he knows r
mite of Christ’s righteousness which is pure, and the utmo:
tent of his merits, as wellas the dement of our iniquities.
he knows' the filth of our sin, he also knows the coverin
our Saviour: he knows the value of the Bedeemer’s suife.
and exactly understands every plea in the interccssionof ou
I

