UN sons KNOWLEDGE. $91
voeata Though God knows our sins oculoindzbe, yet he doth not see
them acubjndice, with a judicial eye: his omniscienoe stirs not up
his justice to revenge, but his merc to pity. His infinite un-
stand' 0' of what Christ hath done,   ts him to disarm his jus:
tice, :iiid sound an alarm to his bowels. As he understands better
than we what we have committed, .so he understands better than
we what our Saviour hath merited; and his_e e directs his hand
in the blottiiggaput guilt, and applying the remedly. f
Uwe HI. l be to sinners, .to humble them, and put them
upon serious consideration This attribute speaks terrible things
to a profligate sinner. Basil thinks that the ripping open the sins
of the damned to their faces by this perfection of God, is more
terrible than their other. torments in ell. . God knows the per~
sons of wicked men, not one is exempted, from his eye; he sees
all the actions of men, as well. as he knows their persons (Job. xi.
11): “He knows vain men, he sees wickedness a so” (Job xxxiv,
2l): “ His eye is upon all their goings." He. hears the most
private whis ers (Ps. cxxxix. 4), the sco e, manner, circumstance
of speaking, he knows it altogether: he understands all ourthoughts,
the first bubblings of that bitter spring (Ps. cxxxix. ? ; the quickest
glances of the fancy, the closest musings of the min , and the abor~
tive wouldings or wishes of the will, the language of the heart, as
well as the language of the tongue; not a foolish thought, or an idle
word, not a wanton glance, or a dishonest action, not a negligent
service, or a distracting fancy, but is more visible to him, than the
tilth of a dunghill can be to any man by the help of a sun beam.
How much better would it be for desperate sinners to have their
crimes known to all the angels in heaven, and men upon earth, and
devils in hell, than that they should be known to their Sovereign,
whose laws they have violated, and to their Judge, whose righteous:
ZIQS obligeth him to revenge the injury l
1. Consider what a poor refuge is secrecy to -a sinner. Not the
mists of a foggy day, nor the obscurity of the darkest night, not the
closest curtains, nor the deepest dungeon, can hide any sin from the
eye of God. Adam is known in his thickets, and Jonah in his cabv
in. Achan’s wedge of gold is discerned by him, though buried in
the earth, and hooded with a tent. Shall Sarah be unseen by him,
when she mockingly laughs behind the door? Shall Gehazi tell _ a
lie, and comfort himself with an imagination of his master’s ignor-
ance, as long as God knows it? \Vhatsoever Works men do, are not
hid from God, whether done in the darkness or daylight, in the mid-
night darkness, or the noon-day sun: he is all eye to see, and he
hath a great wrath to punish.. The wheels of Ezekiel are full of
eyes: a piercing eye to behold- the sinner, and a swift Wheel of wrath
to overtake   God is light, and of all things light is most cliil
icultly kept out. The secretest sins are set in the light of his coun-
tenance (Ps. xc. 8), as legible to him, as if written with a sun-beam;
more visible to hiinthan the greatest print to the sharpest eye. The
fornications of the Samaritan woman, perha known onl to her
own conscience, were manifest to Christ (Jldlin iv. 16.) There is
nothing so secretly done, but there. is an infallible witness to prepare

