         
\s\
\\
\: 1
Qt §2\ i
X; 2
492 _ cmauocx ON 'mn arrnmurns.
a charge. Though God he invisible to us, we must not imagin
are so to him; it is a vanity, therefore, to think that we can ec
ourselves from God, by concealing the notions of God from our
and practice. If men be as close from the eyes of all men, as
those of the sun, yea, if they could selparate themselves from
own shadow, they could not draw t emselves from God’s 11
standin : how, then, can darkness shelter us, or crafty artihce
fend usg With what shame will sinners be filled, when God
hath traced their steps, and writ their sins in a. book, shall rn:
repetition of their ways, and unveil the web of their wi
I _
ness
2. What a dreadful consideration is this to the 'ugiling hyp<
that masks himself with an pppearance of pietyil n infinit
derstanding judges not acco 'ng to veils and shadows, but ac
in to truth; “He `ud es not accordin to a earance” (1 San
  The outward clomginess of a. worlr im}i>)d)seth not on hir
knowledge, and therefore his estimations are quite of another r
than those of men. ,By this perfection God looks through the
and beholds the litter of abominations in the secrets ofthe sou
true quality and principle of every work, and judges of the
they are, and not as they appear. Di¥uised pretexts cannot df
him; the disguises are known afar o , before they are weavei
pierceth into the depths of the most abstruse wills; all secret
are dissected before im; every action is naked in its outside
open in its inside; all are as clear to him as if their bodies we
crystal; so that  _there be any secret reserves,_he will certain
prove us (Job xm. 10). We are often deceived; We may
wolves for sheep, and hypocrites for believers; for the eyes of
are no better than flesh, and dive no further than appearance
an infinite understanding, that fathoms the secret depths c
heart, is too knowing to let a dream pass for a truth, or misti
shadow for a body. Though we call God Father all our days, 1
the language if agngels, cflr be cilndowedkwith the   of miracl
can discernw et erwe ave is mar u n us; e can es
treason of Judas in a kiss; Herod’s inteiit) of murdering uii
splecious pretence of worship; a Pharisee’s fraud under a `
p glactery; a ravenous wolf under the softness of a shee(p’s
an the devil in Samuel’s mantle, or when he would shrou hi;
among the sons of God (Job i. 6, 7). All the rooms of the I
and every atom of dust in the least chink of it, is clear to his
he can strip sin ‘from the fairest excuses, pierce into the heart
more ease than the sun can through the thinnest cloud or vapor
lack thrpugh all Epl;1raim’s ingelnuous inventipns ttp excus
i oatr Hos. v. 3. cris , t en, isasense ess ing, si1
cannotyescape unmgskingpby Bl? infinite understanding. As a
force cannot stop his arm, when he is resolved to punish, so a
svgphistry cannot blind his understanding, when _he comes to j
oe to the hypocrite, for God sees him; all his Juggllng is opei
naked to infinite understandin .
8. Is it not also a senseless giing to be careless of sins comm
long ago? The old sins forgotten by men, stick fast in an ir

