ON Gorrs KNOWLEDGE. 493
understanding: time cannot rase out that which hath been known
from eternity. Why should they be forgotten many years after they
were acted, since they were foreknown in an eternity before they
were committed, or the criminal capable to practise them? Amxxle
must pay their arrears of their ancient unkindness to Israel in the
time of Saul, though the generation that committed them were rot-
ten in their graves (1 Sam. xv. 2). Old sins are written in a book,
which lies always before God; and not only our own sins, but the
sins of our fathers, to be re uited u on their posterit .1 What a
vanity is it then to be regardless of the sins of an age that went be-
fore usl because they are in some measure out of our knowledge, are
they therefore blotted out of God’s remembrance? Sins are bound up
wit him, as men do bonds, till the resolve to sue for the debt; the
iniquity of Ephraim is bound u (Hes. xiii. 12). As his foreknowl-
edge extends to all acts that shall be done, so his remembrance ex-
tends to all acts that have been done. We may as well say, God
foreknows nothing that shall be done to the end of the world, as
that he'forgets anything that hath- been done from the beginning of
the world. The former es of the world are no iiuther distant
from him than the latter. “god hath a calendar (as it were) or an
account book of men’s sins ever since the beginning of the world,
what they did in their childhood, what in their youth, what in
their manhood, and what in their old age: he hath them in store
among his treasures (Dent. xxxii. 34): he hath neither lost his
understanding to know them, nor his resolution to revenge them:
as it follows, “to me vengeance belongs” (ver, 35). He intends
to enrich his justice with a glorious manifestation, by rendering
a due recompense. And it is to be observed, that God doth not
only necessarily remember them, but sometimes binds himself by
an oath to do it (Amos viii. 7); “The Lord hath sworn by the ex-
cellency of Jacob, Surel I will never forget an of their works.”
Or, in the Hebrew, “ Hy I ever for et any of their works;” that
is, let me not be accounted a God, forever, if I do forget; let
me lose m godhead, if I lose my remembrance. It is not less a
misery to the wicked, than it is a, comfort to the godly, that their
record is in heaven.
4. Let it be observed, that this infinite understanding doth exactly
know the sins of men; he knows so as to consider. He doth not
only know them, but intently behold them (Ps. xi. 4): “His eyelids
try the children of men,” a metaphor taken from men that contract
the eyelids, when they would wistly and accurately behold a thing;
it is not a transient and careless look (Ps. x. 14): “Thou hast seen
1t;” thou hast intently beheld it, as the word properly signifies: he
lieholds and knows the actions of eve particular man, as if there
were none but he in the World; and doih not only know, but ponder
(l‘ror, v. 21), anfLconsider their works gs. xxxiii. 15); he is not a
bare specta tor, but a diligent observer (1 am. ii. 3); “By him actions
are weighed :” to see what degree of good or evil there is in them,
what there is to blemish them, what to advantage them, what the
quality and quantity of every action is. Consideration takes in every
| kai. lxv 6. “ Behold it in written'
Q

