494 CHARNOCK ON THE A'1'I‘RIBUTE. 4
circumstance of the considered object: notice is taken of the place
where, the minute when, the mercy against which it is committed;
the number of them isexact in God s book: “ They have tempted me
now these ten times (Numb. xiv. 22), against the demonstrations of
my glory in Egypt and the wilderness. The whole guilt in every
circumstance is spread before him: his knowled of men’s sinsis
not confused; such an imperfection an infinite un§llerstanding cannot
be subject to: it is exact, for iniquity is marked before him (Jer.
ii. 22 _
5. llrod knows men’s miscarriage so as to judge. This use his
omniscience is put to, to maintain his sovereign authority in the ex-
ercise of his justice. His notice of the sins of men is in order to a
just retribution (Ps. X. 14): “ Thou hast seen mischief to requite it
with thy hand.” The eye of his knowledge directs the hand of his
justice; and no sinful action that falls under his cognizance, butwill
all under his revenge; they can as little escape his censure as they
can his knowledge: he is a witness in his omniscience, that he ma
be a judge in his rightcousnem; he knows the hearts of the wicked;
so as to hate their works, and   his abhorrency of that which is
of high value with men (Luke xvi. 15). Sin is not preserved in his
understanding, or written down in his book to be moth-eaten as an
old manuscript, but to be opened one da , and copied out in the
consciences of men: he writes them to publish them, and sets then;
in the light of his countenance, to bring them to the light of their
consciences. What a terrible consideration is it, to think that the
sins of a day are upon record in an infallible understanding, much
more the sins of a week ; what a number, then, do the sins of a month,
a year, ten or forty years, arise to! How many actions against
charity, against sincerity! what an infinite number is there of them,
all bound up in the court rolls of God’s omniscience, in order to a
trial, to be brought out before the eyes of men! W'ho can seriously
consider all those bonds, reserved in the cabinet of God’s knowledge,
to be sued out against the sinner in due time, without an inexpresi-
ble horror?
Use IV. is of exhortation. Let us have a sense of God’s knowledge
upon our hearts. All wickedness hath a spring from a want of due
consideration and sense of it. David concludes it so (Ps. lxxxvi. 13,
“ the proud rose against him, and violent men sought after his so ,
because they did not set God before them.” They think God doth
not know, and therefore care not what, nor how they act. When
the fear of this attribute is removed, a door is opened to all impiety.
What is there so villanous, but the minds of men will attempt to
act? What reverence of a Deity can be left, when the sense of his
infinite understanding is extinguished? What faith could there be
in judgments in witnesses? How would the foundations of hiunan
society be overturned; the pillars upon which commerce stands  
utterly broken and dissolved! What society can be preserved, lf
this be not truly believed, and faithfully stuc to! But how easily
would oaths be swallowed and quickly violated, if the sense of this
perfection were rooted out ofthe minds of men I What fear could
they have of calling to witness a Being they imagine blind and igno

