. ON cows KNOWLEDGE. 495
rant? Men secretly imagine, that God knows not, or soon forgets,
and then make bol to sin against him (Ezek. viii. 12). _How much
does it therefore concern us to cherish and keep alive the sense of
this? “ IfGod writes us upon the palms of his hands,” as the ex-
pression is, to remember us, let us engrave him upon the tables of
our hearts to remember him. It would be a. good motto to write
upon our minds, God knows all, he is of infinite understanding.
1. This would give check to much iniquity. Can a man s con~
science easily and delightfully swallow that which he is sensible falls
under the cognizance of God, when it is hateful to the eyes of his
holiness, and renders the actor odious to him? “ Doth he not see
my ways, and count all my steps,” saith Job (xxxi. 423 To what
end doth he fix this consideration? To keep him om wanton
glances; temptations have no encouragement to come nwr him, that
is constantly armed with the thoughts that his sin is booked in God’s
omniscience. If any impudent devil hath the face to tempt us, we
should not have the impudence to join issue with him under the
sense of an infinite understandin _ How fruitless would his wiles
be against this consideration! Tlow easil would his snares be
cracked by one sensible thought of this!   doth Solomon pre-
scn'be to alla the heat of carnal imaginations (Prov. v. 20, 21). It
were a usefulyfquestion to ask, at the appearance of every temptation,
at the entrance 1500 every action, as t e church did in temptations
to idolatry (Ps. iv. 21): “ Shall not God search this out, for he
knows the secrets of the heart?" His understanding comprehends
ns more than our consciences can our acts, or our understanding our
thoughts. Who durst speak treason against a prince, if he were sure
he heard him, or that it would come to his knowledge? A sense
of God’s knowled e of wickedness in the first motion, and inward
contrivance, would bar the accomplishment and execution. The
consideration of God’s infinite understanding would cry stapd to the
first glances of the heart to sin.
2. It would make us watchful over our hearts and thoughts.
Should we harbor any unworthy thoughts in our cabinet, if our
heads and hearts were possessed with this useful truth, that God
knows everything which comes into our minds (Ezek. xi. 5)? We
should as much blush_ at the rising of impure thoughts before the
understanding of God, as at the discovery of unworthy actions to the
knowledge of men, if we lived under a sense, that not a thought of
all those millions, which flutter 'about our minds, can be concealed
from him. How watchful and careful should we be of our hearts
and thoughts! '
3. It would be a good preparation to every duty. This consider~
ation should be the preface to every service; the .Divine understand-
ing knows how I now act. This would engage us to serious intention,
and quell wandering and distracting fancies. Who would come
before God, with a careless and ignorant soul, under'a sense of his
infinite understanding, and prerogative of searching the heart? “O
thou that sittest in heaven I’ was a consideration the psalmist had at
the beginning of his prayer (Ps. cxxiii. IQ: whereby he testifies not
only an apprehension of the majesty an power of God, but of his

