ON sons xuownsnen. 497
add to this his knowledge, the wonders' of his patience, which are
miraculous upon the score of his omniscience, that he is not as quick
in his revenge as he is in his understanding, but is so far from inflict-
ing punishment, that he continues his former benefits, a.rms not his
justice against us, but solicits our repentance, and waits to be
cious wit all this knowledge of our crimes; should not the considgi:
ation of this melt our hearts into humiliation before him, and make
us earnest in begging pardon and forgiveness of him? Again, do
we not all find a. worm in our best fruit, a Haw in our solm est du-
ties? Shall any of us vaunt, as if God beheld only the old, and
not any dross; as if he knew one thing only, and not another? If
we knew something by ourselves to cheer us, do we not also know
something, yea, many thin to condemn us, and therefore to hum-
ble us? Let the sense of €`od’s infinite knowledge, therefore, be an
incentive and argument for more humiliation in us. If we know
enough to render ourselves vile in our own eyes, how much more
doth God know to render ns vile in hisl
6. The consideration of this excellent perfection shouldmake us
to acquiesce in God, and rely upon him in 'every strait. In gublic,
in private; he knows all cases, and he knows all remedies; he nows
the seasons of bringing them, and he knows the seasons of removing
them, for his own dglory. What is contingent in respect of us, an
of our foreknowle e, and in respect of second causes, is not so in
regard of God’s, who hath the knowledge of thefuturition of all
things; he knows all causes in themselves, and, therefore, knows
what every cause will produce, what will be the event of every coun~
nel and of every action. How should we commit ourselves to this
God of iniinite understanding, who knows allrthings, and foreknows
everything; that cannot be forced through ignorance to take new
counsel, or be surprised with anlything that can haplpen to usl This
use the Psalmist makes of it ( s. x. ll): “Thou ast seen it, the
poor committeth himself unto thee.” Though “some trustinchariots
and horses” (Ps. xx. 7), some in colmsels and counsellors, some in
their arms and courage, and some in mere vanit and nothing; yet,
let us remember the name and nature of the Lord’ our God, his divine
peifections, of which this of his infinite understanding and omnis-
cience is none of the least, but so necessa , that without it he could
ggbe God, andthe whole world wouldrbe a mere chaos and con-
on.
vol.. L--38 '

