\
 
s\
\h\
`\}5\§§% <
s&
_ Es,
 
 
 \
DISCOURSE IX.
ON THE WISDOM or GOD.
Ron. xvi. 27,-To God only wise be glory, through Jesus Christ, for ever.
THIS chapter beindg the last of this Epistle, is chiefly mad
charitable and frien salutations d rn d t' f =
y an com en a ions o p
persons, according to the earliness and strength of their
graces, and their labor of love for the interest of God and his
n verse 17, he warns them not to be drawn aside from th
doctrine, which had been taught them, by the plausible
and insinuations which the conupters of the doctrine an;
Christ never want from the suggestions of their carnal wisdoi
brzatsdpf soul-d<;_stroy;1ing eIrdr;>rs :gay walk ablout the world  
an `sguiseo goo wo an £airseeces,a.sitisin'
verse; by “good words and fair speechels deceive the heart
simple.” And for their enco\n‘ ment to a constanc in th
dfoctrinle, he assures them, that   those that would disposse
o trut , to ssess t ern with vanit , are but Satan’s insti
and will fallpgnder the same captivii? and yoke with their I
(y1e1;'§8); ‘ghe God tpf peace shal? bruise Satan under y
is o y.” hence, o serve,
1. All co1'rupters of divine truth, and troublers of the
giace, are no betterdtl`:)a.nPdevils. hOurh Sivioulil tihought thi
tan, a tit e merite eter, W en e reat e out an 81
an axe at the root of tlL ospel, the death of Christ, the foi
of all gospel truth; and tie apostle concludes them under t
character, which hinder the superstructure, and would m
chaff with his wheat (Matt. xvi. 23), “Get thee behind me,
It is not, Get thee behind me, Simon, or, Get thee behind me
but “Get thee behind me, Satan; thou art an offence to IDG.,
dost oppose thyself to the wisdom, and grace, and authority
to the redemption of man, and to the good of the world.
Holy Ghost is the Spirit of truth, so is Satan the spirit of fal
as the Holy Ghost inspires believers with truth, so doth t
t beli 'th L t I h l
corrup un evers wi error. e us c eave to t e trut
gospe , that we may not be counted by God as art of the 1
tion of fallen angels, and not be barely reckoned as enemies
but in league with the greatest enemy to his lory in the wo
2. The Reconciler of the world will be are Subduer oz
The God of peace sent the Prince of peace to be the restore
rights, and t e hammer to beat in pieces the usurper of then

