ON 'nm wrsnom or con. 499
God of truth, he will make good his promise; as a God of peace, he
will perfect the design his wisdom hath laid, and begun to act. In
the subduing Satan, he will be the conqueror of his instruments: he
saith not, God shall bruise your troulvlers and heretics, but Satan:
the fall of a. generalcproves the rout of the army. Since God, as a
God of peace, hath elivered his own, he will perfect the victory,
and make them cease from bruising the heel of his spiritual seed
3. Divine evan elical truth shall be victorious. No wea on
formed against it shall prosper: the head of the wicked shall fall as
low asthe feet of the godly. The devil never yet blustered in the
world, but he met at last with a disappointment: his fall hath been
like li htning, sudden, certain, vanis ng.
4. ligaith must look back as far as the foundation promise. “The
God of peace shall bruise,” &c. The appstle seems to allude to the
first promise (Gen.   15),-adpromise t at hath vigor to nourish the
church in all ages of the worl : it is the standing cordial; out of the
womb of this promise all the rest have taken their birth. The
plromises of the Old Testament were designed for those under the
ew, and the full performance of them is to be expected, and will
be enjoyed by them. It is a mighty strengthening to faith, to trace
the footsteps of God’s truth and wisdom, from the threatening against
the se nt in Eden, to the bruise he received in Calvary, and the
trinmrheover him u on Mount Olivet.
5. €Ve are to contiide in the promise of God, but leave the season
of its accom lishment to his wisdom. He will “bruise Satan under
your feet,” therefore do not doubt it; and shortly, therefore, wait for
it. Shortly it will be done, that is, quickly, when you think it may
be a great way off; or shortly, that is, seasonably, when Satan’s rage
ishottest. God is the best judge of the seasons of distributing his
own mercies, and darting out his own glory: it is enough to en-
courage our waiting, that it will be, and that it will be shortly; but
we must not measure God’s shortly by our minutes.
The apostle after this, concludes with a comfortable rayer, that
since they were liable to manly temptations to turn theirgiacks u _ on
the doctrine which they had earne ; yet he desires God, who had
brought them to the knowledge of his truth, would confirm them in
the belief of it, since it was the gospel of Christ, his dear Son, and
amystery he had been chary of an kept in his own cabinet, and
now brought forth to the world in pursuance of the ancient prophe-
sies, and now had published to all nations for that end that it might
be obeyed; and concludes with a doxology, a voice of praise, to
Him, who was only wise to effect his own purposes (ver. 25, 26, 27),
“Now to him that is of power to establish you according to my
gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revela-
tion of the mystery, which was kept secret since the World began,
but now is made manifest, and b the Scriptures of the rophets,
according to the commandment of? the everlasting God, made known
toall nations for the obedience of faith.” This doxology is inter-
laced with many comforts for the Romans. He explains the causes
of this glory to God, ower, and wisdom; wer to establish the
Romansin grace, which includes his will   he proves from a

