ON 'nm wrsnon or con. 501
deserting of what hath been acted is a real repentance, and ar es
an imprudence in the first resolve and attempt. The gospel is cgi-led
the manifold wisdom of God (Eph. iii. 10); the fmit of it, in the heart
of any person, which is a main design of it, hath a title to the same
character; and shall this ace, which is the roduct of this gospel,
and theretbre the birth 0? manifold wisdom,ll>e suppressed? It is
at God’s hand we must seek our fixedness and establishment, and
act faith u n these two attributes of God. Power is no ground to
expect stadiility, without wisdom interestin the agent in it, and find-
ing out and applying the means for it. &isdom is naked without
power to act, and power is useless without wisdom to direct. They
are these two exce lencics of the Deity the apostle here pitches the
hope and faith of the converted Romans upon for their stability.
Obaerv. 3. Perseverance of believers in grace is a gospel doctrine.
“According to my ospel," my gospel ministerially, according to
that gospel doctrine T have taught you in this epistle (for, as the
prophets were comments u on the law, so are the epistles upon the
gospel), this very doctrine Ihe had discourscd of (Rom. viii. 38, 89),
where he tells them, that neither death nor life, the terrors of a cruel
death, or the allurements of an honorable and pleasant life, nor
principalities and powers, with all their subtelty and strength, nor
the things we have before us, nor the promises of a future felicity,
by either angels in heaven or devils in hell, not the highest angel,
nor the dee t devil, is able to separate us, us Romans, “from the
love of Goriirhich is in Christ Jesus.” So that, according to my
Egspel, may be according to that declaration of the gospel, which I
ve made in this epistle, which doth not only promise the first cre-
ating grace, but the perfecting and crowning grace; for not only the
being of grace, but the health, liveness, and perpetuity of grace is
the fruit of the new covenant (Jer. xxxii. 40.)
Observ. 4. That the gospel is the sole means of a Christian’s estab-
lishment; “ According to my gospel,” that is, by my gospel. The
gospel is the instrumental cause of our spiritual life; it is the cause
also of the continuance of it; it is the seed whereby we were born,
and the milk whereb we are nourished (1 Pet. i. 23) ; it is the
“power of God to salyvation” (1 Pct. ii. 2), and therefore to all the
degrees of it (John xvii. 17); “Sanctify them by thy truth,” or
through thy truth; by or through his truth he sanctifies us, and by
the same truth he establisheth us. The first sanctification, and the
progress of it, the ‘first linearnents, and .the last colors, are wrought
yt e gos l. The gos el, therefore, ought to be known, studied,
and consideered by us. lt is the charter of our inheritance, and the
security for our standing. The law acrauaints us with our duty,
but contributes nothing to our strength an settlement.
Obaerv. 5. The gospel is nothing else but the revelation of Christ
(Ear. 25); “According to my gospel and the preachin of Jesus
_ rist;” the discovery of the mystery of redemption and salvation
U1 and by him. It is gemlivus oiecti, that preaching wherein Christ
IB declared and set out, with the enefits accruing by him. This is
the privilege, the wisdom of God reserved for the latter times, which
the Old Testament church had only under a veil.
\

