I
ON ms wrsnom or eon. 503
callmysteries, are not learned slee ing and nodding: diligence is
required; we must be disciples at go ‘s feet As 'it had God for
the author, so we must have God for the teacher of it; the contriv-
ance was his, and the illumination of our minds must be from him.
As God only manifested the gospel, so he can only open our eyes
to see the mysteries of Christ in it. In verse 26 we may observe,
1. '1‘he Scriptures of the Old Testament verify thesubstance of
the New, and the New doth evidence the authority of the Old, by
the Scriptures of the pro hets made known. The Old Testament
credits the New, and the New illustrates the Old. The New Testa/-
ment is a comment upon the prophetic art of the Old. The Old
shews the promises and predictions of (ded, and the New shews the
pierformance. What was foretold in the Old, is fulfilled in the
ew; the predictions are cleared by the events. The predictions
of the Old are divine, because they are above the reason of man
to foreknow; none but an infinite knowledge could foretel them,
because none but an infinite wisdom could order all things for the
accomplishment of them. The Christian religion hath, then, the
surest foundation, since the Scriptures of the prophets, wherein it
is foretold, are of undoubt/ed antiquity, and owned by the Jews and
many heathens, which are and were the fgreat enemies of Christ.
The Old Testament is therefore to be read or the strengthening of
our iaith. Our blessed Saviour himself draws the streams of his
doctrine from the Old Testament: he clears up the promise of eter-
nal life, and the doctrine of the resurrection, from the words of
the covenant, “I am the God of Abraham,” &c. (Matt. xxii. 82.)
And our apostle clears up the doctrine of justification by faith from
God's covenant with Abraham (Rom. iv.) It must be read, and it
must be read as it is writ: it was writ to a gospel end, it must be
studied with a gospel spirit. The Old Testament was writ to give
credit to the New, when it should   manifested in the world. It
must he read by us to give strength to our faith, and establish us
in the doctrine of Christianity. How many view it as a bare stor ,
an almanack out of date, and regard it as a dry bone, without sue;-
iug from it the evanvelical marrow! Christ is, in Genesis, Abraf-
ham’s seed; in David’s psalms and the prophets, the Messiah and
Redeemer of the world. 2
2. Observe, The antiquity of the gospel is made manifest by the
Scriptures of the prophets. It was o as ancient a date as any
prophecy: the first prophecy was nothin else but a gos el charter;
it was not made at the incarnation of éhrist, but made manifest.
It then rose up to its meridian lustre, and sprung out of the clouds,
wherewith it was before obscured. The gospel was preached to
the ancients by the prophets, as well as to the Gentiles by the
apostles (Heb iv. 2); “ Unto us was the gospel preached, as well as
unto them." To them first, to us after; to them indeed more
cloudy, to us more clear; but they as well as we, were evangelized,
as the word signifies. The covenant of grace was the same in the
writings of the prophets, and the declarations of the evangclists
and apostles. T ou h b our Saviour’s incarnation, the gospel
light was clearer, am? by   ascension, the etfusions of the Spirit

