ON 'rim wxsnou or con. 505
a sub`ect: his pardon adds a ater obligation than his protec-
tion did before, while he ww lt-iyal. Christ’s righteousness gives
us a title to heaven; but there must be a lfolinew to give us a fit
ness for heaven.
6. Observe, that evan elical obedience, or the obedience of Faith,
is only acceptable to (god. Obedience of faith; genitivus specaez,
noting the kind of obedience God re uires; an obe ienee springing
from faith, animated and influenced by faith. Not obedience o
faith, as though faith were the rule, and the law were abrogated;
butto the law as a rule, and from faith as a rineiple. There is
no true obedience before faith (Heb. xi. 6.) “Pi/Vithout faith it is
impowible to please God ;" and therefore without faith impossible
to obey him. A good work cannot proceed from a defiled mind
and conscience; and without faith every man’s mind is darkened,
and his conscience lluted (Tit. i. 15.) Faith is the band of union
to Christ, and obegiience is the fruit of union; we cannot bring
forth ti-uit without bein branches (John xv. 4, 5), and we cannot
be branches without beheving. legitimate fruit follows upon mar-
riage to Christ, not before it (Rom. vii. 4.) “That you s ould be
married to another, even to hun that is raised from the dead, that
you should brinv forth fruit unto God.” All fruit before marriage
is-bastard, and :bastards were excluded from the sanctuary. Our
persons must be first accepted in Christ, before our services can be
awe table; those works are not acceptable where the erson is not
parfihned. Good works flow from a pure heart; but the heart can-
not be pure before faith. All the good works reckoned up in the elev-
enth chapter of the Hebrews were from this spring; those heroes
fist believed and then obe ed. By faith Abel was righteous before
God, without it his sacriiiyce had been no better than Cain’s: by
faith Enoch leased God, and had a divine testimon to his obedis
ence before   translation; by faith Abraham ofiiired up Isaac,
without which he had been no better than a murderer. All obe-
dience hath its root in faith, and is not done in our own strength,
but in the strength and virtue of another, of Christ, whom God
hath set forth as our head and root. .
7. Observe, faith and obedience are distinct, though inseparable 1
“The obedience of faith.” Faith, indeed, is obedience to a gos el
command, which enjoins us to believe; but it is not all our che-
dience. Justification and sanctification are distinct acts of God;
justification respects the person, sanctification the nature; justificaf
tion is first in order of nature, and sanctiiication follows: they are
distinct, but inseparable; every justified person hath a sanctified na-
ture, and every sanctified nature suptposeth a justified person. So
hith and obedience are distinct: fait as the principle, obedience as
the product; faith as the cause, obedience as the effect; the cause
andthe effect are not the same. By faith we own Christ as our
Lord: by obedience we regulate ourselves aecordi to his com-
mand. The acceptance of the relation to him as a sxiiliject, precedes
the performance of our duty: by faith we receive his law, and by
obe ienee we fulfil it. Faith makes us God’s children (Gal. iii. 26).
Obedience manifests usto be Christ’s disciples (John xv. 8). Faith ll

