506 cirruuwocir ON 'rm-: Arrmrnurss.
the touchstone of obedience; the touchstone, and that which is tried
by it, are not ¥`1e same. But though they are distinct, yet they are
,inseparable aith and obedience are joined together; obedience
follows faith at the heels. Faith urifies the heart, and a pure heart
cannot be without pure actions. Ihaith unites us to Christ, whereby
we partake of his life; and _a livin branch cannot be without fruit
in its season, and “much fruit” (dohn xv. 5), and that naturally
from a “newness of s irit" (Rom. vii. 9); not constrained by the
rigors of the law, but drawn forth .from a sweetness of love; for
faith works by love. The love of God is the strong motive, and
love to God is the quickening principle: as there can be no obe-
dience without faith, so no faith without obedience. After all this,
the apostle ends with the celebration of the wisdom of God; “To
God only wise, be glor , through Jesus Christ forever.” The rich
discovery of the gospelvcannot be thought of, by a gracious soul,
witléout a return of praise to God, and admiration of his singular
wis om.
Wise God. His power before, and his wisdom here, are mentioned
in conjunction (in which his goodness is included, as interested in
his establishing power) as the ground of allthe glory and praise God
hath from his creatures.
Only wilse. As Christ saith (Matt. xix. 12, “None is good, but
God;” so the apostle saith, None wise, but od. As all creatures
are unclean in regard of his purity, so they are all fools in re-
gard of his wisdom; yea, _the lorious ange s themselves (Job iv.
18). Wisdom is the royalty og God; the proper dialect of all his
ways and works. No creature can lay claim to it; he is so wise,
that he is wisdom itself
Be glory, through Jesus Christ. As God is only known in and by
Christ, so he must be only Worshi ped and celebrated in and throug
Christ. In him we must pray toqiim, and in him we must raise
him. As all mercies How from God through Christ to us, so all our
duties are to be presented to God throug Christ. In the Greek,
verbatim, it runs thus: “To the alone wise God, through Jesus
Christ, to him be glory forever.” But we must not understand it
as if God were wise by Jesus Christ, but that thanks is to be given
to God through Christ; because in and by Christ God hath revealed
his wisdom to the world. The Greek hath a repetition of the arti-
cle q5, and expressed in the translation, “ To him be glor .” Bela
expungeth this article, but without reason, for lp is as much as Wi,
“to him ;” and joining this, “ the only wise God” with ver. 25, “FD
him that is of power to establish you ;” reading it thus, “ To him
that is of power to establish you, the only wise God," leaving the
rest in a parenthesis, it runs smoothly, “to him be glory, through
Jesus Christ,” And Crellius, the Socinian, observes, that this arti-
cle G, which some leave out, might be industriously inserted by the
aplostle, to shew that the glory we ascribe to God is also given to
rist. We ma observe, that neither in this place, nor any wherb
in Scripture, is the Virgin Mary, or any of the saints, asociated with
God or Christ in the glory ascribed to them.
In the words there is. 1. An appropriation of wisdom to God, and

