os THE wrsnom or son. 507
| remotion of it from all creatures; “only wise God.” 2. A glorify-
ing him for in The point I shall insist upon is, That wisdom is a
transcendant excellency of the Divine nature. ' We have before
spoken of the knowledge of God, and the infiniteness of it; the next
attribute is the wisdom of God. Most confound the knowledge and
wisdom of God together; but there is a manifest distinction between
them in our conception. I shall handle it thus: I. Shew what
wisdom is. Then lay down, II. Some ropositions about the wis-
dom of God. And shew, III. That God) is wise, and only wise. IV.
Wherein his wisdom appears. V. The Use.
I. What wisdom is. Wisdom, among the Greeks, first signified
an eminent perfection in any art or mystery; so a good statuary,
engraver, orlimner, was called wise, as having an excellent knowl-
edge in his particular art. But afterwards the title of wise was ap-
propriated to those that devoted themselves to the contemplation of
the highest things that served for a foundation to speculative
sciences” But ordinarily we count a man a wise man, when he
conducts his affairs with discretion, and governs his passions with
moderation, and carries himself with a due proportion and harmony
in all his concerns. But in particular, wisdom consists,
1. In acting for a right end. The chiefest part of prudence is in
thing a right end, and in choosing lit means, and directing them to
that scope; to shoot at random is a mark of folly. As he is the
wisest man that hath the noblest end and fittest means, so God is in-
finitely wise; as he is the most excellent being, so he hath the most
excellent end. As there is none more excellent than himself no-
thing can be his end but himself; as he is the cause of all, so he is
the end of all; and he puts a true bias into all the means he useth
to hit the mark he aims at: “Of him, and through him, and to him,
are all things” (Rom. xi. 36).
2. Wisdom consists in observing all circumstances for action. He
is counted a wise man that lais hold of the fittest opportunities to
bring his designs about, that ath the fullest foresight of all the lit-
tle intrigues which may happen in a business he is to manage, and
times every part of is action in an exact harmony with the
proper minutes of it. God hath all the circumstances of things in
oneentire image before him; he hath a prospect of every little creek
in any design. He sees what second causes will act, and when they
will act this or that; yea, he determines them to such and such acts;
sothat it is impossible he should be mistaken, or miss of the due
season of bringing about his own purposes. As he hath more good-
ness than to deceive any, so he hath more understanding than to be
mistaken in any thing. Hence the time of the incarnation of our
blessed Saviour is called the fulness of time, the proper season for
his coming. Every circumstance about Christ was timed according
to the predictions of God ; even so little a thing as not parting his
garment, and the giving him gall and vinegar to drink; and all the
lessings he showers down upon his people, according to the
govgréant of grace, are said to come “in his season” (Ezek. xxxiv.
0 .
' ) » Amyraut. MorsL rm in p. 128. V

