510 cHAnNocK ON rm: `A'I'I‘RIBU'1‘ES.
God is his nature. As the sun cannot be without light, while it re-
mains a sun, and as eternity cannot be without immortality, sa
neither can God be without wisdom As he only hath immortality
S1 Tim. vi. 16), not arbitrarily, but necessarily; so he only hath wis-
om: not because he will be wise, but because he cannot but be
wise. He cannot but contrive counsels, and exert operations, be-
coming the greatness and majesty of his nature.
2. Therefore “only wise” originally. God is addlalaxrog smtumg,
Men acqtuire wisdom by the loss of their fairest years; but his wis-
dom is t e perfection of the Divine nature, not the birth of study,
or the growth of experience, but as necessary, as eternal, as his es-
sence. He goes not out of himself to search wisdom: he needs no
more the brains of creatures in the contrivance of his urposes, than
he doth their arm in the execution of them. He need; no counsel,
he receives no counsel from any (Rom. xi. 34): “ Who hath been
his counsellor ?” and (Isa. xl. 14) “ \Vith whom took he counsel, and
who instructed him, or taught him in the ath of judgment, and
taught him knowledge, and showed to him tlile path of understand-
ing ?" He is the onl Fountain of wisdom to others; angels and
men have what wisdbm they have, by communication from him.
All created wisdom is a spark of the Divine light, like that of the
stars borrowed from the sun. He that borrows wisdom from another,
and doth not originally ossess it in his own nature, cannot properly
be called wise. As God) is the only Bein , in regard that all other
beings are derived from him, so he is only wise, because all other
wisdom flows from him, He is the spring of wisdom to all; none
the ori 'nal of wisdom to him.
3. Tilerefore “ onl wise” fectly. There is no cloud upon his
understanding. He liath a diestinctand certain knowledge of all
things that can fall under action; as he hath a perfect knowl-
edge without ignorance, so he hath a beautiful wisdom without
mole or wart. Men are wise, yet have not an understanding so
vast as to grasp all things, nor a perspicacity so clear, as to pene-
trate into the epths of all being. Angels ave more delightful
and lively sparks of wisdom, yet so imperfect, that in regard of
the wisdom of God they are charged with folly (Job iv. 18).
Their wisdom as well as their holiness is veiled in the presence
of God. It vanisheth, as the glowing of a fire doth before the
beauty of the sun, or as the light of a candle in the midst of a
sunshine contracts itself, and none of its rays are seen, but inthe
body of the flame. The angels are not erfectly wise, because
they are not perfectly knowing: the gospel? the great discovery
of God’s wisdom, was hid from them for ages.
4. Therefore “only wise” universally. Wisdom in one man is
of one sort, in another of another sort; one is a wise tradesman,
another a wise statesman, and another a wise philosopher: one is
wise in the business of the world, another is wise in divine con-
cerns. One hath not so much of plenty of one sort, but he may have
a scantiness in another; one may be wise for invention, and foolish
in execution; an artificer may have skill to frame an engine, and
not skill to use it. The ground that is 'dt for olives may not be iii

