ON 'nm wisnou or con. 511
Rmrvines; that will bear one sort of grain and not another. But
God hath an universal wisdom, because his nature is wise; it is not
limited, but hovers over everything, shines in every being. His
executions are as wise as his contrivances: he is wise in his resolves
and wise in his ways: wise in all the varieties of his works of crea-
tion, government, redemption. As his will wills all things, and his
power effects all things, so his wisdom is the universal irector of
the motions of his will, and the executions of his power: as his
righteousness is the measure of the matter of his actions, so his Wis-
dom is the ru‘o that directs the manner of his actions. The ab-
solute powerof ‘God is not an unruly power: his wisdom orders
all things, so that nothing is done but what is ‘dt and convenient,
and agreeable to so excellent a Being: as he cannot do anunjust
thing because of his ri hteousnesness, so he cannot do an unwise
act, because of his ininite wisdom. Though God be not neces-
sitated to any operation without himself, as to the creation of any-
thing yet supposing he will act, his wisdom necessitates him to
do t at which is congruous, as his righteousness necessitates him
to do that which is just: so that thou h the will of God be the
principle, yet his wisdom is the rule oig his actions. We must, in
our conceiving of the order, suppose wisdom antecedent to will:
none that acknowledgesra God can have such an imapious thouglht
as to afhx temerity and rashness to any of his procee ngs. All is
decrees are drawn out of the infinite treasury of wisdom in himself?
He resolves nothing about any of his creatures without reason;
but the reason of his purposes is in himself, and springs from him-
self, and not from the creatures :` there is not one thing that he wills
but “he wills by counsel, and works by counsel” (Eph. i. 11). Coun-
sel writ down every line, every letter, in his eterna Book; and all
the orders are drawn out from thence by his wisdom and will: what
was illustrious in the contrivance, glitters in the execution. " His un-
derstanding and will are infinite; what is therefore the act of his
will, is the result of his understanding, and therefore rational. His
understanding and will join hands; there is no contest in God, will
against mind, and mind against will; they are one in God, one in his
resolves, and one in all his works.
5. Therefore he is “only wise” perpetually. As the wisdom of
man is got by ripeness of age, so it is lost by decay of years ; it is
got by instruction, and lost by dotage. The perfectest minds, when
in the wane, have been darkened with folly : Nebuchadnezzar, that
was wise for a man, became as foolish as a brute. But the Ancient
of' Days is an unchangeable possessor of prudence; his wisdom is a
nnrror of brightness, withouta defacing spot. It was “ ossessed by
lumin the beginning of his wa s, befbre his works oip old” (Prov.
  22), and he can never be dispossessed of it in the end of his
works. It is inseparable from him : the being of his Godhead may
assoon cease as the beauty of his mind; “with him is wisdom’
(-lob xii. 13); it is inseparable from him; therefore, as durable as
his essence. It is a wisdom iniinite, and therefore without increase
01' decrease in it-selil The experience of so many agesin the govern-
' Prlhill against Sherlock, p. 877. '

