512 cnnnnocx ON rim .i'r'rnrnU'rns.
ment of the world hath added nothing to the immensity of it, as the
shining of the sun since the creation of the world hath added nothing
to the ight of that glorious body. As ignorance never darkens his
knowledge, so folly never disgraces his prudence. God infatuatu
men, but neither men nor devils can infatuate God; he is unerring-
ly wise; his counsel doth not vary and flatter; it is not one day one
counsel, and another da another, but it stands like an immovable
rock, or a mountain of lilrass. “ The counsel of the Lord stands for-
ever, and the thoughts of his heart to all generations” (Ps. xxxiii. 112;
6. He is onl wise incomprehensibly. “ His thoughts are deep
(Ps. xcii. 5); “hlis judgments unsearchable, his ways past Hnding
out” (Rom. xi. 33): depths that cannot be fathomed; a splendor
more dazzling to our dim minds than the light of the sun to our
weak eyes. The wisdom of one man may be comprehended by
another, and over-com rehended ; and often men are understood by
others to be wiser in tllieir actions than the understand themselves
to be; and the wisdom of one angel may he measured by another
angel of the same perfection. But as the essence, so the wisdom of
God is incomprehensible to any creature; God is only comprehended
by God. The secrets of wisdom in God are double to the exprem-
ions of it in his works (Job xi. 6, 7); “Canst thou, by searching,
find out God ?” There is an unfathomable depth in all his decrees,
in all his works; _we cannot com rehend the reason of his works,
much less that of his decrees, mudli less thatiin his nature; because
his wisdom, being infinite as well as his power, can no more act to
the highest itch than his ower. As his power is not terminated
by what he hath wrou ht, gut he could give further testimonies of
it, so neither is his wisglom, but he could furnish us with infinite ex-
pressions and ieces of his skill. As in regard of his imrnensity he
is not bounded) by the limits of place ; in regard of his eternity, not
measured by the minutes of' time; in regard of his power, not termi-
nated with this or that number of objects; so, in -re ard of his wis-
dom, he is not confined to this or that particular mode of working;
so that in regard of the reason of his actions, as well as the glory and
majesty of his nature, he dwells in unapproachable light (1 Tim. vi.
16); and whatsoever we understand of his wisdom in creation and
providence, is infinitely less than what is in himself and his own un-
ounded nature. Many things in Scripture are declared chiefly to
be the acts of the Divine will, yet we must not think that they were
acts of mere will without wisdofn, but the are represented so to us,
because we are not capable of understanding the infinite reason of
its acts: his sovereignty is more intelligible to us than his wisdom.
We can better know the commands of a superior, and the laws of a
paince, than understand the reason that gave birth to those laws.
e may know the orders of the Divine will, as they are published,
but not the sublime reason of his will. Though election be an act
of God’s sovereignty, and he hath no cause from without t,o deter-
mine him, yet his infinite wisdom stood not silent while mere do-
minion acted. Wfhatsoever God doth, he doth wisely, as well as
sovereignly; though that wisdom which lies in the secret places of
the Divine Being be as incomprehensible to us as the effects of his

