ON rm: wrsnou or con. 51!
rovereignty anéiapower in the world are visible, God can give a rea-
son of his proc ing, and that drawn from himself, though we un-
derstand it not. The causes of thin visible lie hid from us. Doth
any man know how to distinguish ti; seminal virtue ofa small seed
from the body of it, and in w at nook and corner that lies, and what
thatis that spreads itself in so fair a plant, and so many flowers?
Can we comprehend the justice of God’s proceedings in the pros-
perity of the wicked, and the afiiictions of the godly? Yet as we
must conclude them the fruits of an unerring righteousness, so we
must conclude all his actions the fruits of an unspotted wisdom,
though the concatenation of all his counsels is not intelligible to us;
for he is as ewentially and necessaril wise, as he is essentially and
necessarily good and righteous. (iid is not only so wise that
nothing more wise can be conceived, but he is more wise than can
beima °ned; something greater in all his perfections than can be
compreilended by any creature. It is a foolish thing, therefore, to
question that which we cannot com rehend; we should adore it in-
stead of disputing against it; and take it for granted, that God would
not order anything, were it not agreeable to the sovereignty of his
wisdom, as well as that of his will. Though the reason of man pro-
ceed from the wisdom of God, yet there is more diiference between
the reason of man, and the wisdom of God, than between the light
ofthe sun, and the feeble shining of the glow-worm ; yet we presume
to censure the ways of God, as if our purblind reason had a reach
above him. '
7. God is “ only wise” infallibly. The wisest men meft with rubs
inthe way, that make them fall short of what the aim at; the
ofien design, and fail; then begin again; and yet all their counselys
end in smoke, and none of them arrive at perfection. If the wisest
angels lay a plot, they may be disappointed; for thoufrh they are
higher and wiser than man, yet there is One higher and wiser than
they, that can check their projects. God always compasseth his end,
never fails of anything he designs and aims at; all his undertakings
are counsel and will; as nothing can resist the efiicacy of his will,
so nothing can countermine the skill of his counsel: ‘There is no
wisdom, nor understanding, nor counsel against the Lord” (Prov.
xxi. 30). He compasseth his ends by those actions of men and
devils, wherein they think to cross him; they shoot at their own
mark, andhit his. Lucifer’s plot, bv divine wisdom, fulfilled God’s
purpose against Lucifer’s mind. The counsel of redemption by
Christ, the end of the creation of the world, rode into the world upon
the back of the sei-pent’s temptation. God never mistakes the means,
nor can there be any disappointments to make him vary his counsels,
and pitch upon other means than what before he had ordained. His
“word that goeth forth of his mouth shall not return to him void,
but it shall accomplish that which he pleases, and it shall rosper in
the thing whereto he sent it” Slsa. lv. 11). What is said of) his word,
istrne of his counsel; it shal prosper in the thing for which it is
appointed; it caimot be defeated by all the legions of men and
devils; for “ as he thinks, so shall it come to pass; and as he hath
purposed, so shall it stand; the Lord hath purposed, and who shall
vol.. 1.-33

