514 cnnrmocx ON THE armmnrns.
disannul it” (Isa. xiv. 24, 23? The wisdom of the creature in
drop from the wisdom of G , and is like a drop to the ocean, and
a shadow to the sun; and, therefore, is not able to meet the wisdom
of God, which is innnite and boundless. No wisdom is exempted
from mistakes, but the Divine: he is wise in all his resolves, and
never “calls back his words” and purploses (Isa. xxxi. 2).
III. The third general is to prove t at God is wise. This is aa-
cribed to God in Scripture (Dan. ii. 20); “ Wisdom and might are
his ;" wisdom to contrive, and power to effect. Where should wis-
dom dwell, but in the head of a Deity? and where should power
triiunph, but in the arm of Omnipotency ?° All that God doth, he
doth artificiall ', skilfully; whence he is called the “Builder of the
heavens” (Heli. xi. 10), Tfpirqc an artifical and curious bnilder,a
builder by art: and that word (Prov. viii. 30) meant of Christ;
“Then I was by him as one brought up with him ;” some render it,
Then I was the curious artificer; and the same word, is translated,
a cunning Workman (Cant. vii. 5). For this cause, counsel is ascribed
to God ;¢ not properly, for counsel implies something of ignorance,
or irresolution, antecedent to the consultation, and a posture of will
afterwards, which was not before. Counsel is, properly, a laborious
deliberation, and a reasoning of things; an invention of means for
the attainment of the end, after a discussing and reasoning of all
the doubts which arise, pro re nahi, about the matter in counsel.
But God hath no need to deliberate in himself what are thebest
means to accomplish his ends: he is never ignorant or undetermined
what course he should take, as men are before they consult. But
it is an expression, in condescension to our capacity, to signify that
God doth nothing but with reason and un erstanding, with the
highest prudence and for the most glorious ends, as men do alter
consultation and the weighing of every foreseen circumstance.
Though he acts all things sovereignly by his will, yet he acts all
thin wisely by his understanding; and there is not a decree of his
willfut he can render a satisfactory reason for, in the face of men
and angels. As he is the cause of all thin , so he hath the highest
wisdom for the ordering of all things. 1? wisdom among men be
the knowledge of divine and human things, God must be infinitel);
wise, since knowledge is most radiant in him; he knows what ange
and men do. and infinitely more; what is known by them obscunely,
is known by him clearly; what is known lg man after it is done,
was known by God before it was wrought. y his wisdom, as much
as by anything, he infinitely differs from all his creatures, as by wis-
dom man differs from a brute. We cannot frame a notion of God,
without conceiving him iniinitely wise. We should render him very
inoonsiderable, to imagine him furnished with an infinite knowledge,
and not have an infinite wisdom to make use of that knowledge, or
to fancy him with a mighty power destitute of prudence. Knowl-
edge without prudence, is an eye without motion; and power with-
out discretion, is an arm' without a head; a hand to act, without
' Culverwell, Light of Nature, p. 30. '
° Isa. xlvi. 10. Jer xxxii. 19. “Great in counsel.” Job xii. 13. “ He hath eoanulnl
understanding."

