ON THE wrsnou or con. 515
understanding to contrive and model; a strength to act, without
reason to know how to act: it would be a miserable notion of a God,
to fancy him with a brutish and unguided power. ` The heathens,
therefore, had, and could not but have, this natural notion of God.
Plato, therefore, calls him_ Mevw ;“ and Cleanthes used to call God.
Reason; and Socrates thought the title of 209:66 too magniicent to
be attributed to anything else but God alone.
Arguments to rove that God is wise.--Reason 1. God could not
he ininitely perfgct without wisdom. A rational nature is better
than an irrational nature. A man is not a perfect man without
reason ; how can God without it be an infinitely perfect God? \Vis-
dom is the most eminent of all virtues; all the other perfections of
God without this, would be as a body without an e e, a soul without
understanding. A Christian’s graces want their iiistre, when they
are destitute of the guidance of wisdom: mercy is a feebleness, and
justice a cruelty; patience a timorousness, and courage a madness,
without the conduct of wisdom; so the patience of (mod would be
cowardice, his power an oppression, his _justice a tyranny, without
wisdom as the spring and holiness as the rule. No attribute of God
could shine with a due lustre and brightness without it. Power is a
great perfection, but wisdom a greater! Wisdom may be without
much power, as in bees and ants; but power is a tyrranical thing
without wisdom and righteousness. The pilot is more valuable be-
cause of his skill, than the gally slave because of his strength; and
the conduct of a general more estimable than the might of a private
soldier. Generals are chosen more by their skill to guide, than their
strength to act; what a clod is a man without prudence; what a
nothing would God be without it! This is the salt that gives relish to
all other perfections in a creature; this is the jewel in the ring of all
the excellencies of the Divine nature, and holiness is the splendor
of that jewel. Now God being the first Being, possesses whatsoever
is most noble in any being. If therefore wisdom, which is the most
noble perfection in any creature, were wanting to God, he would be
deficient in that which is the highest excellency. God being the
living God, as he is frequently termed in Scripture, he hath therefore
the most rfect manner of living, and that must be a pure and in-
tcllectualqilfe; being essentially living, he is essentially in the high-
est d of living. As he hath an infinite life above all creatures,
so hm an infinite intellectual life, and therefore an infinite wis-
dom; whence some have called God, not sapwkntem, but super sapi-
enlem,¥ not only wise, but above all wisdom.
Reason 2. Without infinite wisdom he could not govern the world.
Without wisdom in forming the matter, which was made by Divine
power, the world could have been no other than a chaos; and with-
out wisdorn in government, it could have been no other than a. heap
of confusion; without wisdom the world could not have been created
ui the posture it is. Creation supposeth a determination of the will
putting power upon acting; the etermination ofthe will supposeth
I Eugub. per Philosoph lib. i. cap. 5.
' U Lieet mag-num sit posse, majus tamen es; sapen.
I Suarez. Vfl. L lib. i. cap. 8. p. 10.

