516 cninnocic ON :mn nrrmnorns.
the counsel of the understanding, determining the will: no work,
but supposeth understanding as well as will in a rational agent. As
without skill things could not be created, so without it thingseannot
be governed. 'Reason isa. necessary- perfection to him that presides
over all things: without knowledge there could not be in Gods
foundation for government, and without wisdom there could' not be
an exercise of government.; and without the most excellent wisdom,
hecould not.be the most excellent governor. He could not be an
universalrgovernor, without anniversal wisdom; nor the sole gov-
ernor without an unimitable wisdom; nor an independent governor
without an original and independent wisdom; nor a. perpetual
governor wihout an incorruptible wisdom. Hewould not be the
Lord .of the world in all points, without skill to order the aiihirs of
it, Power and wisdom are foundations of .all authority and govern-
ment; wisdom to know how to rule and command; power to make
those commands obeyed: 'no regular order could issue out without
the first, nor could any order be enforced without the second. A
feeble wisdom, and a brutish power,eseldom or-never produce any
good effect. Magistraeyrwithout wisdom, would be a frantic power,
8. rash conduct; like a strong arm when the eye is out, it strikes it
knows not what, and leads it knows not whither. .VVisdom without
power, would be like a greatbody without feet# like the knowledge
of a pilot that hath lost his arm, who, though he knows the rule of
navigation, and what course to follow in his voyage, yet cannot man-
age the helm: but when those two, wisdom and power, are linked
together, there ariseth from both a ntness for govemment. There
is wisdom to propose an end, and both wisdom and power employ
means that conduct to that end. And therefore when God demon-
strates to J ob his right of government, and the unreasonableness of
Job’s quarrelling with his proceedings, he chiefly urgeth upon him
the consideration of those two excellencies of his <nat1u°e, power and
wisdom, which are expressed in his works (chap. xxxviii.--xii) A
prince without wisdom, is but a title without ,a capacity to rform
the office; no man without it is fit for government; nor coisd God
Without wisdom ,exercise a just dominion in the world. He hath,
therefore, the highest wisdom, since he is the universal governor.
That wisdom which is able to govern a family, may not be able to
govern a city; and that wisdom which overns a cit , may not be
able to govern a nation or kingdom, mucgr less a worlmli ,The bounds
of God’s government being greater than any, his wisdom for govern-
ment must needs surmount the wisdom of all. And though the
creatures be not in number actually infinite, yet they cannot be well
governed, but by One endowed with iniinite discretion! Providen-
tial government can be no more without infinite wisdom., than infin-
ite wisdom can be without Providence.
Reason 3. The creatures working for an end, without their own
knowledge, demonstrate the wisdom of God that guides them. All
things in the world work for some end; the ends are unknown to
them, though many of their ends are visible to us. As there was
some prime cause, which by his power inspired them with their aev
° Amiraut. MoraL ~ ' Amynld. Desert. Theol. p. 111.
\

