ON 'rum wrsnoir or con. 517
eral instincts; so there must be some supreme wisdom, which moves
and guides them to their end. As their being manifests his power
that endowed them, so the acting according to the rules of their na-
ture, which they themselves understand not, manifests his wisdom
in directing them. Everything that acts for an end, must know that
end, or be directed by another to attain that end. The arrow doth
not know who shoots it, or to what end it is shot, or what mark is
aimed at; but the archer that uts it in, and darts it out of the bow,
knows. A watch hath a regulldr motion, but neither the spring, nor
the wheels that move, know the end of their motion; no man will
judge a wisdom to be in the watch, but in the artificer that dia-
posed the wheels and spring, bg joint combination to pmduce such
a motion for such an end. th either the sun that enlivens the
earth, or the earth that travels with the plant, know what plant it
produceth in such a soil, what tempgr it s ould be of, what fruit it
should bear, and of what color? hat plant knows its own med-
icinal qualities, its own beautiful Bowers, and for what use they are
ordained? When it strikes up its head from the earth, doth it know
what proportion of them there will be? yet it produeeth all these
things in a state of i norance. The sun warms the earth, concocts
the humors, excites the virtue of it, and cherishes the seeds which
are cast into her lap, yet all unknown to the sun or the earth. Since,
therefore, that nature, that is the immediate cause of those things
doth not understand its own qualit , nor operation, nor the end of
its action, that which thus directs them must be conceived to have
an infinite wisdom. When thin act by a rule they know not, and
move for an end they understands not, and yet work harmoniously
together. for an end, that all of them, we are sine, are i orant ot; it
mounts up our minds to acknowledge the wisdom of thgt Supreme
Cause that hath ranged all these interior causes in their order, and
imprinted upon them the laws of their motions. according to the
ideas in his own mind, who orders the rule by which they act, and
the end for which they act, and directs eve motion according to
their several natures, and therefore possesseld' with infinite wisdom
in his own nature.
Reason 4. God is the fountain of all wisdom in the creatures, and,
therefore, is infinitelv wise himself A As he hath a fulness of being
in himself, because the streams of being are derived to other things
from him, so he hath a fulness of wisdom, because he is the spring
of wisdom to angels and men. That being must be infinitely wise
from whence all other wisdom derives its original; for nothing can
bein the effect, which is not eminently in the cause; the cause is
alway more perfect than' the effect. If, therefore, the creatures are
wise, the Creator must be much more wise. If the Creator were des~
titute of wisdom, the creature would be much more perfect than the
Creator. If you consider the wisdom of the s ider in her web, which
is both her house and net; the artitice of the bee in her comb, which
isboth her chamber and granary; the provision of the pismire in
her repositories for corn,-the wisdom o the Creator is illustrated by
them: whatsoever excellencyqyou see in any creature, is an image
of some excellency in God. he skill of the artiiicer is visible in

