518 cnnmocx ON THE yrrsrnnrns.
the fruits of his art; a workman transcribes his spirit in the workof
his hands. But the wisdom of rational creatures, as men, doth more
illustrate it; all arts among men are the ra s of Divine wisdom shin-
ing upon them, and, by a common gift of? the Spirit, enlightening
their minds to curious inventions, as (Prov. viii. 12): “ I, wisdom,
find out the knowledge of witty inventions ;" that is, give a iiiculty
to men to ind them out; without my wisdom all things would be
buried in darkness and ignorance: whatsoever wisdom there is in
the world, it is but a shadow of the wisdom of God, a small rivulet
derived from him, a spark leaping out from uncreated wisdom (Isa.
liv. 16): “He created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire,
and makes the instruments.” The skill to use those weapons in war-
like enterprises is from him: “I have created the waster to destroy ;”
it is not meant of creatin their persons, but communicating to them
their art; he speaks it tiere to expel fear from the chiuch of all
warlike reparations against them; he had given men the skill to
form and) use weapons, and could as well stri them of it, and defeat
their purposes. ' he art of husbandry is a iiiuit of divine teaching
(Isa. xxviii. 24, 25). If those lower kinds of knowledge, that are
common to all nations, and easily learned by all, are discoveries of
Divine wisdom, much more the nobler sciences, intellectual and poli-
tical wisdom (Dan. ii. 21): “ He gives wisdom to the wise, and
knowledge to them that know understanding ;” speaking of the more
abstruse parts of knowledge, “The inspiration of the Almighty gives
understanding” (Job xxxii. 8). Hence the wisdom which Solomon
expressed in the harlot’s case (1 Kings iii. 28), was, in the judgment
of all Israel, the wisdom of God; that is, a fruit of Divine wisdom,
a beam communicated to him from God. Every man’s soul is en-
dowed, more or less, with those noble qualities; the soul of every
man exceeds that of a brute; if the streams be so excellent, the
fountain must be fuller and clearer. The first Spirit must iniinitely
more possess what other spirits derive from him by creation; were
the wisdom of all the angels in heaven, and men on earth, wllected
in one spirit, it must be intinitely less than what is in the spring; for
no creature can be equal to the Creator. As the highest creature
already made, or that we can conceive may be made by infinite
power, would be infinitely below God in the notion of a creature, so
it would be infinitely below God in the notion of wise.
IV. The fourth thing is, wherein the wisdom of God a pears. It
appears, lst, In creation. 2dly, In government. Sdly, lin redemp-
t` .
ion
First, In creation. As in a musical instrument there is first the
skill of the workman in the frame, then the skill of the musician in
Stringing it proper for such musical notes as he will express upon it,
and after that t e tempering of the strings, by various sto to a de-
lightful harmony, so is the wisdom of God seen in framingi%1e world,
then in tuning it, and afterwards in the motion of the several crea-
tures. The iabric of the world is called the wisdom of God (1 Cor.i.
21): “After that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew
not God ;” i. e., by the creation the world knew not God. The
framing cause is there put rbr the effect and the work framed; be'

