ON 're WISDOM or son. 519
cause the Divine wisdom stepped forth in the creatures, to a public
appearance, as if it had presented itself in a visible shape to man,
ving instructions in and by the creatures, to know and adore him.
gihat we translate (Gen. i. 12 “In the beginning God created the
heaven and the earth,” the ‘argum expresseth, “In wisdom God
created the heaven and the earth.” Both bear a stamp of this per-
fection on them ;*' and when the apostle tells the Romans (Rom. i.
20) “The invisible things of God were clearly understood by the
thingsthat a.re made,” the word he uses is "°#4s~w» not Eqyws; this
sii'n.i1ies a work of labor, but 11°/'iw a work of skill, or a poem. The
w ole creation is a poem, every species a stanza, and every indivi-
dual creature a verse in it. The creation presents us with a prospect
of the wisdom of God, as a poem doth the reader with the wit and
fancy of the composer: “By wisdom he created the earth” (Prov.
  19), “and stretched out the heavens by discretion” (Jer. X. 12).
There is not anything so. mean, so small, but glitters with a beam of
Divine skill; and the consideration of them would justly make every
man subscribe to that of the psalmist, “O Lord, how manifold are
thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all" (Ps. civ. 24). All,
the least as well as the greatest, and the meanest as well as the no-
blest; even those creatures which seem ugly and deformed to us, as
toads, lee., because tllizeiyf; fall short of those perfections which are the
dowry of other ani : in these there is a footstep of Divine wis-
dom, since they were not produced by him at random, but deter-
mined to some particular end, and designed to some usefulness, as
parts of the world in their several natures and stations. God could
never have had a satisfaction in the review of his works, and pro-
nounced them good or coinely, as he did (Gen. i. 31), had they not
been agreeable to that eternal original copy in his own mind. It is
said he was refreshed, mb. with that review (Exod. xxxi. 17), which
could not have been, if his piercing eye had found any defect in any
thing which had sprung out of his hand, or an unsuitableness to that
end for which he created them. He seems to do as a/man that hath
made a curious and polite work, with exact care to peer about eve
part and line, if he could perceive any impcrfection in it, to rectig
the mistake: but no defect was found by the infinitely wise God
upon this secondexamination. This wisdom of the creation appears,
1. In the variety. 2. In the beauty. 3. The Btness of every crea-
turefor its use. 4. The subordination of one creature to another
and the joint concurrence of all to one common end.
1. In the variety (Ps. civ. 24): “O Lord, how manifold are thy
works!" How great a variety is there of animals and plants, with a
great variety of forms, shapes, iigurations, colors, various smells,
virtues, and qualities! and t is rarit is produced from one and the
same matter, as beasts and lants fiom the earth (Gen. i. 11, 24);
“Let the earth brin forth iiving creatures; and the earth broug t
forth grass, and the herb yielding seed after his kind :” such diversity
of fowl and Hsh from the water (Gen. i. 20): “Let the waters bring
forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that
may fly ;” such a beautiful and active variety from so dull a matter
* Omne opus naturaa est opus iutelligeutim.
I

