520 cmnnocx on 'inn ATTRIBUTES.
as the earth; so solid a variety from so fluid a matter' as the water;
so noble a piece as the body of man, with such variety of men bersiit
to entertain a more- excellent soul as a est, from so mean a matter
as the dust of the ground (Gen.   7). Fl-ilis extraction of such variety
of forms out of one single and dull matter, is the chemistry of Divine
wisdom. It is a greater skill to frame noble bodies of vile matter, as
varieties of recious vessels of clay and earth, than of a. nobler matter,
as gold and) silver. Again, all those varieties pro agate their kind
in every particular and rguality of their nature, andp uniformly bring
forth exact copies acco ing to the first pattern God made of the
kind (Gen. i. 11, 12, 24). Consider, also, how the same piece of
ground is garnished with plants and flowers of several virtues, fruits,
colors, scents, without our being able to perceive any variety in the
earth that breeds them, and not so great a difference in the roots that
bear them. Add to this the diversities of birds of different colors,
shapes, notes, consisting of various parts, wings like cars, to cut the
air, and tails as the rudder of a ship, to gui e their motion. How
various, also, are the endowments of the creatures! some have vege-
tation, and the power of growth; others have the addition of sense,
and others the excellency of reason; something wherein all agree,
and something wherein all differ; variety in unity, and unity in va»
riety: the wisdom of the Workman had not been so cons icuous had
there been only one degree of goodness: the greatest skill is seen in
the greatest variety. The comeliness of the ody is visible in the
variety of members, and their usetiilness to one another. What an
inform thin had man been had he been all ear, or all eye! IfGod
had made ag the stars to be suns, it would have been a. demonstra~
tion of his power, but, perhaps, less of his wisdom : no creatures,
with the natures the now have, could have continued in being un-
der so much heat: there was no less wisdom went to the frame of
the least, than to the greatest creature. It s aks more art in a
limner to paint a landscape exactl , than to draw the sun, though
the sun be a more glorious body. fmight instance also, in the dit?
ferent characters and features imprinted upon the countenancw of
men and women, the differences of voices and statures, whereby they
are distinguished from one another: these are the foundations of
order and of human society, and administration of justice. What
confusion would have been, if a grown-up son could not be known
from his father, the magistrate from the subject, the creditor from
the debtor, the innocent from the criminal! The laws God hath
given to mankind could not have been put in execution: this variety
speaks the wisdom of God.
2. The wisdom of the creation ap ears in the beaut , and order,
and situation of the several creatures &ccles. iii. 11): “ nl hath made
everything beautiful in his time.” As their being was a fruit of
Divine power, so their order is a fruit of Divine wisdom. All crea-
tures are as members in the great body of the world, roportioned
to one another, and contributing to the beauty of the wlliole; so that
if the particular forms of everythin , the union of all for the com-
position of the world, and the laws which are established in the order
of nature for its conservation, be considered, it would ravish UI

