/
ON 'mm wrsnon or oon. "521
with an admiration of God.° All the creatures are so many pictures
or statues, exactly framed by line (Ps. xix. 4); “Their line is gone
through all the earth ;” their “ line,” a measuring line, or a carpen-
ter’s rule, whereby he proportions several pieces to be exactly linked
and coupled together. “Their line,” that is, their harmonious pro-
portion, and the instruction from it, is gone forth through all the
earth. Upon the account of this harmony, some of the ancient hea-
thens framed the images of their gods with musical instruments in
their hands, signifying that God wrought all things in a due propor-
tion! The heavens speak this wisdom in their order. The revo-
lutions of the sun and moon determine the seasons of the year, and
make day and night in orderly succession. The stars beautify the
heavens, and influence the earth, and keep their courses (Judges v.
20). The keep their stations without interfering with one another;
and though they have rolled about for so many ages, they observe
their distinct laws, and in the variety of their motions have not dis-
turbed one another’s functions. The sun is set as the heart in the
midst of this great body, to afford warmth to all: and had it been
set lower, it had long since turned the earth into Hamc and ashes:
had it been placed higher, the earth would have wanted the nourish-
ment and refreshment necessary for it. Too much nearness had
ruined the earth b parching heat, and too great a distanee had de-
stroyed the earth liy starving it with cold.° The sun hath also its
appointed motion; had it been Hxed without motion, half of the
earth had been unprofitable; there had been a perpetual darkness in
a moiety of it; nothing had been produced for nourishment, and so
it had been rendered uninhabitable: but now, by its motion, it visits
all the climates of the world, runs its circuit, so that “nothing is hid
from the heat thereof’, (Ps. xix. 6 _ It imparts its virtue to ever
corner of the world in its dail an yearly visits. Had it been lixe
the fruits of the earth under it had been parched and destroyed before
their inaturit ;'but all those inconveniences are provided against by
the rpetualymotion of the sun. This motion is orderly; it makes
its cliiily course from east to west, its yearly motion from north to
south: it goes to the north, till it comes to the point God hath set it,
and then turns back to the south, and gains some point ever dav;
it never riseth nor sets in the same place one day, where it did the
day before. The world is never without its light; some see it rising
the same moment we see it setting!" The earth also speaks the
Divine wisdom; it is the pavement of the world, as the heaven is the
ceiling of fretwork. It is placed lowermost, as being the heaviest
body, and fit to receive the weightiest matter, and provided asan
habitation proper for those creatures which derive the matter of their
bodies from it, and partake of its earthly nature; and garnished with
other creatures for the profit or pleasure of mans The sea also
speaks the same Divine wisdom. “He strengthened the fountain 
of the deep, and gave the sea a decree that it should not pass his
* Amyraut. Moral, Vol. I. p. 257
4 Humming. against Selden, p. 281. Plutarch calls God dp/1.o1'u<bg mt povatxbg; he saith
nothing was made without music. ° Charlton, Light of Nature, p. 67.
' [hull-a, M/aL Part L p 483. ' I’ Amyraut. Predestiu p. 9.

