522 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
command” (Prov. viii. 28, 29). He hath given it certain bounds that
it should not overflow the earth (Job xxviii. ll) It contains itself
'in the situation wherein God hath placed it, an doth not transm
its bounds. What if some part of a country, a little spot, hath
overflowed by it, and groaned under its waves? yet for the main, it
retains the same channels wherein it was at first lodged. All crea-
tures are clothed with an -outward beauty, and endowed with an in-
ward harmony; there is an agreement in all arts of this great body;
every one is beautiful and orderly; but the beauty of the world re-
sults from all of them disposed and linked together.
3. This wisdom is seen m the fitness of everlything for its end, and
the usefulness of it. Divine wisdom is more i lustrious in the fitnes
and usefulness of this great variety, than in the composure of their
distinct parts: as the artificer’s skill is more eminent in ntting the
wheels, and setting them in order for their due motion, than in the
external fabric of the materials which compose the clock. Alle:
the most diligent inspection, there can be found nothing in the cre-
ation unprofitable; nothing but is capable of some service, either for
the su port of our bodies, recreation of our senses, or moral instruc-
tion ofp our minds: not the least creatine but is formed, and shaped,
and furnished with members and parts, in a due proportion for it!
end and service in the world; nothing is superfluous, nothing defec-
tive. The earth is iitted,in its parts ;h the valleys are appointed for
granaries, the mountains to shadow them from the scorching heat
of the sun; the rivers, like veins, carry refreshment to every member
of this body; plants and trees thrive on the face of the earth, and
metals are engendered in the bowels of it, for materials for building,
and other uses for the service of man. “There he causes the gras
to grow for the cattle and herb for the service of man, that he may
bring forth food out of the earth” (Ps. civ. lt). The sea is fitted for
use; it is a Hsh pond for the noiuisliment o man; a boundary for
the dividing of lands and several dominions: it joins together nations
far distant: a great vessel for commerce (Ps. civ. 26), “there go the
ships.” It affords va ors to the clouds, wherewith to water the
earth, which the sun draws ug, separating the liner from the salter
parts, that the earth may be uittiil without being burdened with
arrenness by the salt. The sea hath also its salt, its ebbs, and
floods; the one as brine, the other as motion, to preserve it from
utrefaetion, that it may not be contagious to the rest of the world.
ghowers are appointed to refresh the bodies of living creatures, to
open the wom of the earth, and “ water the ground to make it fniit-
ful" (Ps. civ. 3). The clouds, therefore, are called the ehariots of
God; he rides in them in the manifestation of his goodness and wis-
dom. Winds are fitted to purify the air, to preserve it from putrv-
faction, to carry the clouds to several parts, to refresh the perched
earth, and assist her fruits: and also to serve for the commerce of
one nation with another by navigation) God, in his wisdom and
goodness, “ walks upon the wings of the wind” (Ps. civ. 3). Rivers*
are appointed to bathe the ground, and render it fresh and lively;
° Annlymut. sur diverses Text. p. 127, ' Leuius.
* D ‘ e, Melan. Part II. pp. 472. 478.

