ON 'run wisnou or con. 523
they fortify cities, are the limit  of countries, serve for commercej
they are the watering-pots of the earth, and the vessels for drink for
the living creatures that dwell upon the earth. God cut those chan-
nels for the wild asses, the beasts of the desert, which are his crea-
tures as well as the rest (Ps. civ. 10, 12, 13). Trees are appointed for
the habitations of birds, shadows for the earth, nourishment for the
creatures, materials for building, and fuel for the relief of man against
cold. The seasons of the year have their use; the winter makes
the juice retire into the earth, fortifies plants, and fixes their roots:
it moistens the earth that was dried before by the heat of summer.
and cleanseth and prepares it for a new fruitfulness. The spring
calls out the sap in new leaves and fruit. The summer consumes
the superfluous moisture, and produceth nourishment for the inhab-
tants of the world.' The day and night have also their usefulness:
the day gives life to labor, and is a guide to motion and action (Ps.
civ. 24), “The sun ariseth, man goeth forth to his labor until the
evening.” It warms the air, and uickens nature; without day the
world would be a chaos, an unseenqbeauty. The night indeed casts u.
veil upon the bravery of the earth, but it draws the curtains from that
of heaven; though it darkens below, it makes us see the beauty of
the world above, and discovers to us a glorious part of the creation
of God, the tapestry of heaven, and the motions of the stars, hid from
us by the eminent light of the day. It procures a. truce from labor,
and refresheth the bodies of creatures, by recruiting the spirits which
are scattered by watching. It prevents the ruin of life, by a re ara-
tion of what was wasted in the day. It takes from us the sigliit of
tloweis and plants, but it washeth their face with dews for a new
appearance next morning. The lengfh of the day and night is not
without a mark of wisdom; were t ey of a greater length, as the
length of a week or month, the one would too much dry, and the
other too much moisteu; and for want of action, the members would
be stupified. The perpetual succession of day and ni ht is an evi-
dence of the Divine wisdom in tempering the travel and rest of crea-
tures. Hence, the psalmist tells us (Ps. lxxxiv. 16, 17), “The day
is thine, and the night is thine; thou hast prepared the light of the
sun, and made summer and winter ;" 11. e. they are of God‘s framing,
not without a wise counsel and end. Hence, let us ascend to the
bodies of living creatures, and weoshall find every member fitted for
use. What a curiosity is there in every member! Every one ‘fitted
to a particular use in their situation, form, temper, and mutual agree-
ment for the good of the whole: the eye to direct; the ear to receive
directions from others; the hands to act; the feet to move. Every
creature hath members Htted for that element wherein it resides; and
m the body, some parts are appointed to change the food into blood,
others to refine it, and others to distribute and convey it to several
parts for the maintenance of the whole: the heart to mint vital spirits
or preserving life, and the brain to coin animal spirits for life and
motion; the lungs to serve for the coolin the heart, which else would
be patched as the ground in summer. The motion of the members
of the body by one act of the will, and also without the will by a
* Daille, Melau. Il. p. 477, dw.

