ON THE WISDOM OF GOD. Q
any command but what he had ability to observe
want not power to forbear an apple in our corrupt
state, he wanted not strength in is state of integy
of God commanded nothing but what was very
by mm, and inferior to his natural ability. It h§l>éen».__
and unwise to have commanded him to ily up to the sun wut.-
he hadhnot wings; or stop the course of the sea, when he had not
strengt .
(2.) It is suited to the happiness and beneit of man. God’s laws
:rid not an get of mere authority respecting his own glory, but of
' om an goodness respecting man’s benefit. They are perfective
of man’s nature, conferring a wisdom upon him, “rejoicing his
heart, enlightening his eyes” gs. xix. 7, 8), affording hirn both a
Knowledge of G and o him lf. To be without a law, 1B for men
to be as beasts, without justice and without reli `on: other things
as for the good of the body, but the laws of Godl for the good of
e soul; the more perfect the law, the greater the benefit. The
laws given to the Jews were the honor and excellency of that na-
tioéi (_Deut. i. 8); “What natio 's there so great, that hath statutes
an judgments so righteous?" They were made statesmen in the
judicialclaw, ecclesiastics in the ceremonial, honest men in the se-
cond table, and divine in the first) All his laws are suited to the
true satisiaction of man, and the good of human society. Had God
framed a law only for one nation, there would have been the char-
acters of a. particular wisdom- but now an universal wisdom ap-
pears, in accommodating his law, not only to this or that particular
society or coiéporation of men, but to the benefit of all mankind, in
the variety o climates and countries wherein they live; everything
that is disturbing to human society is provided against; ,nothing is
enjoined but what is sweet, rational, and useful: it orders us not to
attempt anything against the life of our neighbor the honor of his
bed, ppc riety in his goods, and the clearness of hiis reputation; and,
if we olbserved, would alter the face of the world, and make it
ook with another hue. The world would be altered from a brutish
to a human world; it would change lions and wolves, men of lion-
like and wolfish disposition, into reason and sweetness. And be
cause the whole law is summed u .in love, it obligeth us to endea-
vor the preservation of one anoS1er’s beings, the favoring of one
another’s interests, and increasingi the goods, as much as justice will
permit and kee ing up one anot er's credits, because love, which is
the soiil of the iraw, is not shown by a cessation from action, but
Signifies an ardor, upon all occasions, in doing good, I say, were
this law well observed, the world would be another thing than it ls:
gl would become a religious fraternity; the voice of enmity, and
e noise of groans and cursings, would not be heard in our
streets; peace would be in all borders; plenty of charity in the
midst of cities and colmtries; joy and singing would sound in all
habitations. Man’s advantage W3»S designed in God’s laws, and doth
naturally result from the observance of them. God so ordered
them, bv his wisdom, that the obedience of man should draw forth
his goodness, and prevent those smarting judgments which were ne-

