V28 cmanocz ON 'ms arrnrsnrss.
cessary to reduce the creature to order that would not voluntarily
continue in the order God had appointed. \ The laws of men are
often unjust, oppressive, cruel, sometimes against the law of na-
ture; but an universal wisdom and righteousness glitters in the
Divine law ; there is nothing in it but is worthy of God, and useful
for the creature; so that we may well say, with Job, “ Who teaches
like God" (ilob xxxvi. 22)? or as some render it, “Wire is a law-
giver like trod? Who can say to him, Thou hast wrought iniquity
or fbll among men? His precepts were framed for the preserva-
tion ofyman in that rectitude wherein he was created, in that like-
ness to God wherein he was first made, that there mi ht be acorres-
pondence between the integlrity of the creature and the goodness
of his Creator, by the obe 'ence of man; that man mig t excr-
cise his faculties in operation worthy of him, and beneficial to the
world.
(3.) The wisdom of God is seen in suiting his laws to the con-
sciences as well as the interests of all mankind (Rom. ii. 14); “The
Gentiles do, by nature, the things contained in the law ;" so great
an aiiinity there is between the wise law and the reason of man.
There is a. natural beauty emerging from them, and dartin upon
the reasons and consciences of men, which dictates to them gmt this
law is worthy to be observed in itsel£ The two main principles of
the law, the love and worship of God, and doing as we would be
done by, have an indelible impression in the consciences of all gferg
in regard of the _rinciple, though they are not suitably expr
in the practice. %Vere there no law outwardly ublished, yet every
man’s conscience would dictate to him that God) was to be acknow -
edged, worshipped, loved, as naturally as his reason would acquaint
him that there was such a being as God. This suitableness of them
to the consciences of men is manifest, in that the laws of the best
governed nations among the heathen have had an agreement with
them. Nothing can be more exactly composed, according to the
rules of right and exact reason, than this; no man but approves of
something in it, yea, of the whole, when he exerciseth that dim rea»
son which he hath. Suppose any man, not an absolute atheist, he
cannot but acknowledge the reasonableness of worshipping God.
Grant him to be a spirit, and’ it will presently appear absurd: to re-
present him by any corporeal image, and derogate from his excel-
ency by so mean a resemblance; with the same easiness he will
grant a reverence due to the name of God; that we must not serve
our turn of him, b calling him to witness to a lie in a solemn oath;
that as worship is due to him, so is some stated time a circumstance
necessary to the performance of that worship. And as to the second
table, will any man, in his right reason, quarrel with that command
that engageth his inferiors to honor him, that secures his being from
a violent murder, and his goods from unjust rapine? and though,
by the fur of his lusts, he break the laws of wedlock himself, yet
he CflT'|Y`|0t%llt approve of that law, as it prohibits every man from
doing him the like injury and disgrace. l‘he suitablenem of the law
to the consciences of men is further evidenced by those furious 116°
fiections, and strong alarms of conscience, upon a transgression of IL

