ON rm: wrsnou or con. 529
and that in all parts of the world., more or less, in all men, so ex~
actly hath Divine wisdom iittcd the law to the reason and consciences
of men, as one tally to another: indeed, without such an agreement,
no man's conscience could have any grolmd for a hue and cry; nor
need any man be startled with the records of it. This manifests the
wisdom of God in framing his laws so that the reasons and con-
sciences of all men do, one time or other, subscribe to it. What
governor in the world is able to make any law distinct from this re-
vealed by God, that shall reach all places, all persons, all hearts?
We may add to this the extent of his commands, in ordering good-
ness at the root, not only in action, but affection; not onlyu in the
motion of the members, but the disposition of the soul; w 'ch suit-
ing a law to the inward frame of man, is quite out of the compass
of the wisdom of any creature.
(4.) His wisdom is seen in the encouragements he gives for the
studying and observing his will (Ps. xix. 11); “ In keeping thy
commandments there is great reward.” The variety of them ; there
is not any particular genius in man but may find something suitable
to win upon him in t e revealed will of God. There is a strain of
reason to satisfy the rational ; of eloquence, to gratify the fanciful;
of interest, to allure the selfish; of terror, to startle the obstinate.
(Is a skilful angler stores himself with baits, according to the ap -
tites of the sorts of fish he intends to catch, so in the word of Glbed
there are varieties of baits, according to the varieties of the inclina-
tions of men; threatening; to work upon fear; promises to work
um love; examples of oly men set out for imitation; and those
E ` ly; neither his threatemngs nor his promises are dark, as the
eathen oracles; but peremptory, as becomes a sovereign law `ver;
and plain, as was necessary for the understanding of a creaturei As
he deals graciously with men in exhorting and encomagin them,
so he deals wisely hérein, by taking away all excuse from em if
they ruin the interest of their souls, by enying obedience to their
Sovereign. Again, the rewards God proposeth are accommodated,
not to the brutish parts of man, his carnal sense and ileshly appetite,
but to the capacity of a spiritual soul, which admits only of s iritual
gratihcations; and cannot, in its own nature, without a sordid sub-
`ection to the humors of the body, be moved by sensual pro osals.
fiod backs his precepts with that which the nature of man lionged
for, and with spiritual delights, which can only satisfy a rational ap-
petite; and thereby did as well gratify the noblest desires in ma
as oblige him to the noblest service and work.° Indeed, virtue anlii
holiness bein perfectly amiable, ought chiefly to aifect our under-
  ang by them draw our wills to the esteem and pursuit of
them. But since the desire of happiness is inseparable from tl\e
nature of man, as imipgssible to be lsjoined as an inclination to de-
scend to be severed m heav bodies, or an instinct to ascend 'from
light and   substances; God serves himself of the inclination of
our natures to hap iness, to enjendcr in us an esteem and affection
tothe holines he goth require. He proposeth the enioyment of a
mpematural good and everlasting glory, as a bait to t at insatiable
° Amyraut.
WL 1.-34

