. ON 'mn wrsnon or son. 588
“eve thought of the heart of man is only evil, and that continu-
ally"l?Gen. VL 5). If the wisdom of God did not stop these flood-
tes of evil in the hearts of men, it would overflow the world, and
gistrate all the gracious designs he carries on among the sons oi
men. Were it not for this wisdom, every house would be filled
with violence, as well as every nature is with sin. What harm
would not strong and furious beasts do, did not the skill of man
tame and bridle them? How often hath Divine wisdom restrained
the viciousness of human nature, and let it run, not to that point
they designed, but to the end he purposedl Laban’s fu ', and
Fhau’s enmity against Jacob, were peut in within 'bounds for’;lacob’s
safety, and t eir hearts overruled rom an intended destruction ot
the good man, to a perfect amity (Gen. xxxi. 29, and xxxii.)
2. God’s wisdom IS seen in the brinfng glory to himself out of sin.
(1.2) Out of sin itself God erects t e trophies of honor upon that
whic is a natural means to hinder and deface it. His lorious at-
tributes are drawn out to our view, upon the occasion ofg sin, which
otherwise had lain hid in his own Being. Sin is altogether black
and abominable; but by the admirable wisdom of)God, he hath
drawn out of the dreadful darkness of sin the savin beams of his
mere , and displayed his grace in the incarnation and assion of his
Son For the atonement of sin. Thus he permitted Ad‘aim’s fall, and
wisely ordered it, for a fuller discovery of his own nature, and a
higher elevation of man’s good, that “as sin reigned to death, so
might grace reign through righteousness to eternal life, by Jesus
Christ” (Rom. v. 21). The unbounded goodness of God could not
have appeared without it. His goodness in rewarding innocent obe-
dience would have been manifested; but not`his mercy, in pardoning
rebellious crimes. An innocent creature is the object of the rewards
of grace, as the standing angels are under the beams of grace; but
not under the beams of mercy, because they were never sinful, and,
consequent] ,never miserable. Without sin the creature had not
been miserable: had man remained innocent, he had not been the
Subject of punishment; and without the creature’s miser , God’s
mercy in sending his Son to save his enemies, could not have ap-
peared. The abundance of sin is aipassive occasion for God to man-
ifest the abundance of his grace. e power of God in the chang-
inv the heart of a rebellious creature, had not appeared, had not sin
infect/ed our nature. We had not clearly known the vindictive jus-
tice of God, had no crime been committed; for that is the proper
object of Divine wrath. The goodness of God could never have
permitted justice to exercise itself upon an innocent creature, that
was not guilty either personally or by imputation (Ps. xi. 7), “The
righteous Lord loveth righteousness, his countenance doth uphold
the upright." Wisdom is illustrious hereby. God suffered man to
fall into a mortal disease, to shew the virtue of his own restoratives
to cure sin, which in itself is incurable by the art of any creature.
And otherwise this perfection, whereby God draws good out of evil,
had been utterly use ess, and would have been destitute of an object
wherein to discover itself Again, wisdom, in ordering a rebellious
head-strong world to its own ends, is greater than the ordering an

