on 'nm wrsnou or con. 535
himself of the ambition and covetousness of the Assyrians, Chal-
deans, and Romans, for the correction of his people, and punish-
ment of his rebels, just as the Roman magistrates used the fury of
lions and other wild beasts, in their theatres, for the punishment of
criminals: the lions acted their natural temper in tearing those that
were exposed to them for a pre ; but the intent of the magistrates
was to punish their crimes. The magistate inspired not the lions
with their rage, that they had from their natiues; but served them-
selves of that natural rage to execute justice.
(3.) God's wisdom is seen in bringing (good to the creature out of
sin. He hath ordered sin to such an eu as man never dreamt oi,
the devil never imagined., and sin in'its own nature could never
attain. Sin in its own nature tends to no good, but that of punish-
ment, whereby the creatine is brought into order. It hath no rela-
tion to the creatures ‘good in itseli but to the crea.ture's mischief:
but God, by an act o infinite wisdom, brings good out of it to the
creature, as well as glory to his name, contrary to the nature of
the crime, the intention of the criminal, and the design of the
tem ter. God willed sin, that is, he willed to ermit it, that he
might communicate himself to the creature in the most excellent
manner. He willed the permission of sin, as an occasion to bring
forth the mystery of the incarnation and passion of our Saviour; as
he rmitted the sin of Joseph’s brethren, that he might use their
evil* to a good end. He never, because of his holiness, wills sin as
an end; but in regard of his wisdom he wills to ermit it as a
means and occasion; and thus, to draw good out ol; those things
which are in their own nature most contrary to good, is the highest
pitch of wisdom.
[L] The redemption of man in so excellent a way, was drawn
from the occasion of sin. The greatest blessing that ever the world
was blessed with, was ushered in by contraieties, by the lust and
irregular affection of man; the first promise of the Redeemer by
the fall of Adam (Gen.   15), and the bruising the heel of that
promised Seed, b theblackest tragedy acted by wicked rebels, the
treachery of Judlas, and the rage o the Jews; the highest good
hath been brought forth by the greatest wickedness. As God out
of the chaos of rude and indigested matter framed the first creation;
so from the sins of men, and malice of Satan, he hath erected the
everlasting scheme of honor in a. new creation of all things by
Jesus Christ. The devil ingpired man, to content his own fury in
the death of Christ; and od ordered it to accomplish his own
design of redemption in the passion of the Redeemer; the devil had
his diabolical ends, and God overpowers his actions to serve his
own divine ends. The person that betrayed him was admitted to
he aspectator of the most private actions of our Saviour, that his
innocence might be `ustified; to shew, that he was not afraid to
have hisenemies judges of his most retired privacies. While they
all thought to do their own wills, Divine wis om orders them to do
God’s will §Acts ii. 23?: “Him, being delivered by the determinate
counsel an foreknow ed e of God, you have taken, and by wicked
hands have crucified and slain." And wherein the crucifiers of

