586 cnnrmocx ON 'nm A'l'I‘RIBU'l‘ES.
Christ sinned, in  hedding the richest blood, upon their repentance
they found the expiation of their crimes, an the discovery of |
superabundant mercy. Nothing but the blood was aimed at by
them: the best blood was shed by them; but ininitu Wisdom makes
the cross the scene of his own righteousness, and the womb of
man’s recovery. By the occasion of man’s lapsed state, therevns
a way open to raise man to a more excellent condition than that
whereinto he was put by creation: and the depriving man of the
happiness of an earthly paradise, in a way of justice, was an occa-
sion of advancing him to a heavenly fe icity, in a way of grace.
The violation of the old covenant occasionally introduced a better:
the loss of the Hrst integrity ushered in a more stableriglhteousness,
an everlasting righteousness (Dan. ix. 24). And the fa ing of the
irst head was succeeded by one whose standing could not but be
eternal. The fall of the devil was ordered by infinite Wisdom, for
the good of that body from which he fell. It is su posed by some,
that the devil was the chief angel in heaven, the bead of all the
rest; and that he falling, the angels were leit as a body without a
head; and after he had litically beheaded the angels, he endeav-
ored to destroy man, an§(i°out him out of paradise; but God takes
the op ortunit to set up his Son, as the head of angels and men.
And thus whilzt the devil endeavored to s il the corporation of
an els, and make them a body contrary to god, God makes angels
and men one body under one head, for his service. The angelsin
losing a defectib e head, attained a more excellent and glorious
Head in another nature, which they had not before; though of a
lower nature in his humanity, yet of a more glorious nature in his
divinity: from whence many] suppose they derive their confirming
grace, and the stability of t eir standing. “All things in heaven
and earth are gathered together in Christ” (Eph i. 10%, ¢iw=»¢-L
awSowr0f-1, all united in him, and reduced under one ead: that
though our Saviour be not properly their Redeemer, for rederiription
supposeth captivity, yet in some sense he is their Head and edm-
tor: so that now the inhabitants of heaven and earth are but one
family (Eplh. iii. 15.) And the innumerable company of angels are
parts of t at heavenly and triumphant Jerusalem, and that general
assembly, whereof Jesus Christ is Mediator (Heb. xii. 22, 29.)
[2.] The good of a nation often, by the skill of Divine wisdom,
is promoted by( the sins of some men. The patriarchs’ selling
Joseph to the l idianit/es (Gen. xxxvii. 28), was without question 8
sin, and a breach of natural affection; yet, by God's wise ordinlf
tion, it proved the safety of the whole church of God in the world,
as well as the Egyptian nation (Gen. xlv. 5, 8; l. 20.) The Jews’
unbelief was a ste whereby the Gentiles arose to the knowledgn
of the gos el; as the setting of the sun in one place is the rising of
it in anodher (Matt. xxii. 9.) He uses the corru tions of men
instrumentallly to propogate his gospel: he built up the true church
by the preac ing of some out of envy (Phil. i. 15)5 as he blessed
Israel out of the mouth of a false pro het (Num . xxiii.) HOW
often have the heresies of men been the occasion of clearing HP
the truth of God, and fixing the more lively impremions of it on

