ON 'rrm wrsnou or oon. 537
the hearts of believers! Neither Judah nor Tamar, in their lust,
dreamt of a stock for the Redeemer; yet God gave a son from that
unlawful bed, whereof “Christ came according to the flesh” (Gen.
  29, compared with Matt. i.   J onah's sin was probably the
first and remote occasion of the inevites giving credit to his
prophecy; his sin was the cause of his punishment, and his being
ung into the sea might facilitate the rece tion of his message,
and excite the Ninevites’ repentance, whereiby a cloud of severe
judgment was blown away from them. It is thought by some,
that when Jonah assed through the streets of Nineveh, with his
proclamation of destruction, he ` ht be known b some of the
mariners of that ship, from whencxianhe was cast overlioard into the
sea, and might, after their vo age, be occasionally in that city, the
metropolis of the nation, andy the place of some of their births; and
might acquaint the people, that this was the same person they had
cast into the sea, by his own consent, for his acknowledged running
from the presence of the Lord: for that he had told them (Jonah 1.
10); and the ma.riner’s prayer (ver. 14) evidenced it; whereupon
they might conclude his message worthy of belief, since they knew
from such evidences, that he had sunk into the bowels of the waters,
and now saw him safe in their streets, by a deliverence unknown to
them; and that therefore that power that delivered him, could easily
verify his word in the threatened judgment. Had Jonah gone at
first, without committing that sin, an receiving that punishment,
his message had not been judged a divine prediction, but a fruit
of some enthusiastic madness; his sin upon this account was the
first occasion of averting a judgment from so great a city.
[3.] The good of the sinner himself is sometimes promoted by
Divine wisdom ordering the sin. As God had not permitted sin to
enter upon the world, unless to bring glo to himself by it; so he
would not let sin remain in the little world of a believer s hea.rt, if
he did not intend to order it for his good. What is done by man,
to his damage and disparagement, is directed by Divine wisdom to
his advantage; not that it is the intent of the sin, or the sinner;
but itis the event of the sin, by the ordination of Divine wisdom
and grace. As without the wisdom of God permitting sin to enter
into the world, some attributes of God had not been experimentally
known, so some graces could not have been exercised; for where
had there been an object for that noble zeal, in vindicating the glory
of God, had it not been invaded by an enem ? The mtenseness
of love to him could not have been so strong, lied we not an enemy
to hate for his sake. Where had there been any place for that
noble part of charity in holy admonitions and com assion to the
souls of our neighbors, and endeavors to reduce them out of a
destructive, to a happy path? Humility would not have had so
many grounds for its growth and exercise, and holy sorrow had no
fuel. And as without the appearance of sin there had been no
exercise of the patienw of Go , so without atilictions, the fruits of
sin, there had been no ground for the exercise of the patience of a
christian, one of the noblest parts of valor. Now sin being evil,
and such as cannot but be evil, hath no respect in itself to any
\
n

