538 ` CHABNOCK ON ma arrnrnurnzs.
good, and cannot work a £;a.cious end, or andythin proitable to the
creature; nay it is a hin nee to any goo , ami therefore, what
'good comes from it, is accidental; occasioned, indeed, by sin, but
efiiciently caused by the over-ruling wisdom of God, taking occasion
thereb to display itself and the Divine goodness.
1. 'Iihe sins and corruptions remaining in the heart of man, God
orders for ood; and there are good effects by the direction of his
wisdom and grace, as the soul respects God.
(1.) God often brings forth a sensibleness of the necessity of de-
pendence on him. The nurse often lets the child slip, that it may
the better know who supports it, and may not be too venturous and
coniident of its own strength. Peter would trust in habitual grace,
and God suffers him to fa 1, that he mi ht trust more in assisting
grace (Matt. xxvi. dip: “Though I shouId die with thee, yet I wil
not deny thee.” G leaves sometimes the brightest souls m eclipse,
to manifest that their holiness, and the preservation of it, depen
upon the darting out his beams upon them. As the falls of men are
the effects of their coldness and rernissness in acts of faith andre
pentance, so the fruit of these falls is often a -running to him for
refuge, and a deeper sensibleness where their security lies. It makes
us lower our swellin sails, and come under the lee and rotection
of Divine grace. When the pleasures of sin answer not ihe expec-
tations of a revolted creature, he reflects upon his former state, and
sticks more close to God, when before God had little of his company
(Hoa. ii. R: “I will return to my first husband, for then it was better
with me an now.” As God makes the sins of men sonietimesan
occasion of their conversion, so he sometimes makes them an occa'
sion of a further conversion. Onesimus run from Philemon, and was
met with b Paul, who roved an instrument of his conversion
(Philem. 105: “My son, Snesimus, whom I have begotten in my
bonds.” His flight from his master was the occasion of his regene-
ration by Paul, a prisoner. The falls of believers God orders to their
further stability; he that is fallen for want of using his staii, will
lean more upon it to preserve himself from the like disaster. Godi,
by permitting the lapses of men, doth often make them despairo
their own strength to subdue their enemies, and rely upon the strength
of Christ, wherein God hath laid up ower for us, and so becomes
stronger in that strength which God hath ordained for them. We are
vefiy apt to trust in oiuselves, and have confidence in our own worth
an strength; and God lets loose corruptions to abate this swelling
humor. his was the reason of the apostle Paul’s “ thorn in the
flesh” (2 Cor. xii. 7); whether it were a temptation, or corruption, or
sickness, that he might be sensible of his own inability, and where
the suiiiciency of grace for him was placed. He that is in danger Of
drowning, and hath the waves come over his head, will, with all the
might he hath, laly hold upon anything near him, which is capable to
save him. God ets his people sometimes sink into such a condit ion,
that they may lay the faster hold on him who is near to all that call
u on him.
p(2.) God herebv raiseth higher estimations of the value and virtub
of the blood of Christ. As the great reason why God permittedsm

