540 cmnsocx ON THE .u‘rnmU'rns.
oppressed. The a%stle Paul is such an instance of this, that it needs
no enlartgement. y how much the have failed of answeringthe
end of eir creation in glorifying god., by so much the more they
summon up all their force for such an end, after their conversion; to
restore as much as they can of that glory to God, which they, by
their sin, had robbed him of Their sins, b the order of Divine
wisdom, prove whetstones to sharpen the edge of their spirits for
God. Paul never remembered his persecutin f\u'y, but he doubled
his industr for the service of God, which begne he trampled under
his feet. The further we go back, the greater leap many times we
take forward. Our Saviour, after his resmrection, put Peter upon the
exercise of that love to him, which had so lately shrunk his head
out of suifering (John xxi. 15- 17); and no doubt, but the conside-
ration of his base denial, together with a reflection upon a gracious
pardon, engaged his ingenuous soul to stronger and fiercer flames of
affection. A believer’s courage for God is more sharpened oftentimes
by the shame of his fall: he endeavors to repair the faults of his in-
gratitude and his disin nuity by larger and stronger steps of obedi-
ence; as a man in a ii ist, having been foiled by his enemy, reassumes
new courage by his fail., and is many times obliged to his foil, both
for his spirit and his victory. A gracious heart will, upon the very
motions to sin, double its vigor, as well as b good ones: it is usually
more quickened, both in 1ts motion to (lied and for God, by the
teorpptations and motions to sin which run upon it. This is another
g the wisdom of God brin forth from sm.
(4.) Again, humility towartg God is another good Divine wisdom
bripgs forth from the occasion of sin. By this God beats down all
go opinion of ourselves. Hezekiah was more humbled by his fall
mto pride, than by all the distress he had been in by Sennacheribh
army (2 Chron. xxxii. 26). Peter’s confidence before his falhhgave
way to an humble modesty after it ;_ you see his confidence( ark
xiv. 24). “Though all should be offended in thee, yet will not I ;”
and you have the mark of his modesty (John xxi. 17). It is not
then, Lord, I will love thee to the death, I will not start from thee;
but, “ Lord., thou knowest that I love thee 1” I cannot assure myself
of anything after this miscarriage; but, Lord, thou knowest there is
a principle of love in me to thy name. He was ashamed, that him-
se f who appeared such a pillar, should bend as meanly as a shrub
to a temptation. The reilection upon sin la s a man as low as hell
in his humiliation, as the commission of sin (gd in the merit. When
David comes to exercise re entance for his sin, he begins it from the
well-head of sin (Ps. li. 5),Ihis original corruption, and draws down
the streams of it to the last commission; perhaps he did not so seri-
ously humble himself for the sin of his nature all his days, so much
as at that time; at least, we have not such evidences of it. And
Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart; not only for
the pride of his a.ct (2 Chron. xxxii. 26), but for the pride in the heart,
which was the spring of that pride in act, in showing his treasuresto
the Babylonish ambassadors. God lets sin continue in the hearts
of the best in this world, and sometimes gives the reins to Satan, and

