ON TI-IE WISDOH OF GOD. 541
a r:ian’s own corruption, to keep up a sense of the ancient sale we
made of ourselves to both.
2. In reéard of ourselves. Herein is the wonder of Divine wis-
dom, that od many times makes a sin, which meritoriously fits us
for hell, a. rovidential occasion to tit us for heaven; when it is an
occasion of a more humble faith and believing humility, and an oc-
casion of a thorough sanctification and growth in grace, which pre-
pares us for a state of glory.
g.) He makes use of one sin’s breaking out to discover more;
an so brings us to a self-abhorrency and indignation against sin,
the 'first ste towards heaven. Perhaps David, before his gross fall,
thought he had no hypocrisy in him. We often iind him appealing
to God for his inte rit , an desiring God to try him, if an guile
could be found in   heart, as if he could find none himself; but
his lapse into that great wickedness makes him discern much false-
ness in his soul, when he desires God to renew a right spirit within
him, and speaks of truth in the inward parts (Ps. li. 6, 10). The
stirring of corru tion makes all the mud at the bottom appear, which
oefore a soul did) not suspect. No man would think there were so
great a cloud of smoke contained in a little stick of wood, were it
not for the powerful operation of the fire, that both discovers and
separates it. Job, that cursed the day of his birth, and uttered many
impatient expressions against God upon the account of his own in
tegrity; upon his recovery from his affliction, and God’s close appli-
cation of himself; was wrought to a greater abhorrency of himself
than ever we read he was exercised in before (Job xlii. 6). The hos-
tile acts of sin increase the soul’s hatred of it; and the deeper our
humiliations are for it, the stronger impressions of abhorrency are
made u n us.
(2.) E; often orders it, to make conscience more tender, and
the soul more watchfu.l. He that finds by his calamity his ene-
my to have more strength against him than he suspected, will double
his guards, and quicken his diligence atgainst him. A being over-
taken by some sin, is, by the wisdom o God, disposed to make us
more fearful of cherisbing any occasion to iniiame it, and watchful
against every motion and start of it. By a fall, the soul hath more
experience of the deceitfulness of the heart; and by observing its
methods, is rendered better able to watch against them. It is our
ignorance of the devices of Satan, and our own hearts, that makes
us obnoxious to their surprises. A fall into one sin is often a pre-
vention of more which lay in wait for us; as the fall of a small
body into an ambush revents the design of the enemy upon a
greater: as God suffers liieresies in the church, to try our faith, so he
SHEETS sins to remain, and sometimes to break out, to tr our watch-
fillness. This advantage he brings from them, to st/eel our resolu-
tions   the same sins, and quicken our circumgpection for the
future against new surprises by a temptation. avid’s sin was
ever before him (Ps. li. 3), and made his conscience cry, Blood,
blood! upon every occasion: he refused the water of the well of
Bethlehem (2 Sam. xxiii. 16, 17), because it was ained with the
hazard of lives: he could endure nothing that had the taste of blood

