542 cnannocx on rm: A'I'I‘RIBUTE.
in it. Our fear of a thing deplends much upon a. trial of it: a child
will not fear too near ap roac es to the fire till he feels the smart
of it. Mortification doth not wholly suppress the motions of sin,
though it doth the resolutions to commit it; but that there will be A
proneness in the relics of it, to entice a_man into those faults, which,
upon sight of their blemishes, cost him so many tears; as §eat sick-
nesses, after the cure, are more watched, and the bod umored,
that a man might not fall from the craziness theiy have leit in him,
which he is apt to do if relapses are not provide against. A man
becomes more careful of anything that may contribute to the resur-
rection of an expired disease. »
(3.g God makes it an occasion of the mortiiication of that sin
whic was the matter of the fall. The liveliness of one sin, in a re-
newed man, many times is the occasion of the death of it. A wild
beast, while kept close in a den, is secure in its life, but when it
breaks out to rapine, it makes the master resolve to prevent any
further mischief by the death of it. The im tuous stirring ofa
humor, in a disease, is sometimes critical, andp; prognostic of the
strength of nature against it, whereby the disease loses its strength,
by its struggling, and makes room for health to take place by degrees.
One sin is used by God for the destruction both of itself and others,
as the flesh of a scorpion cures the biting of it. It sometimes, by
wounding us, loseth its sting, and, like the bee, renders itself in-
capable of a second revenge. Pet/er, after his gross denial, never
denied his Master afterwards The sin that lay undiscovered, is, by
a fall, become visible, and so more obvious to a mortifying stroke.
The soul lays the faster hold on Christ and the promise, and goes
out against that enemy, in the name of that -Lord of Hosts, of which
he was too negligent before; and, therefore, as he proves more
strong, so more successful: he hath more strength, because he hath
less confidence in himself, and more in God, e prime strength of
his soul. As it was with Christ, so it is with 118; while the devil
was bruising his heel, he was bruising his head; and while the devil
is bruising our heel, the God of peace and wisdom is sometimes
bruising his head, both in us and for us, so that the strugglings of
sin are often as the faint groans or bitings of a beast that is readyto
expire. It is just with a man, sometimes, as with a running foun-
tain that hath mud at the bottom, when it is stirred the mud tincture!
and defilesit all over; yet some of that mud hath a vent with the
streams which run from lt, so that, when it is re-settled at the bottom,
it is not so much in quantity as it was before. God, by his wisdom,
weakens the sin b permitting it to stir and defile.
(4.) Sometimes %1Vll18 wis om makes it an occasion to promote a
sanctification in all parts of the soul. As the working of one ill-
humor in the body is an occasion of cashiering, not onl that, but
the rest, b a sound pur e; as a man, that is a little coli’ doth not'
think of the fire, but if he slips with .one foot into an icy puddle, he
hastens to the fire, whereby not onl_ that part, but all the rest rc-
ceive a warmth and strength upon that occasion; or, as if a person
tall into the mire, his clothes are washed, and by that means
cleansed, not only from the filth at present contracted, but from the

