ON rms: wrsnox or con. 548
former spots that were before.unregarded. God, by his wisdom,
brings secret sins to a discovery, and thereby cleanseth the soul of
them. David’s fall ` ht be ordered as an answer to his former pe-
tition (Ps. xix. 1i):n3%1eanse thou me from my secret sins ;l’ and
as he did eariies y ray after his fall, so no doubt but he en-
deavored a thorough sanctilication (Ps. li. 7); “Purge me, wash
me ;” and that he meant not only a sanctification from that single
sin, but from all, root and branch, is evident by that com laint
of the flaw in his nature (ver. 5); the dross and chaff which lies
in the heart is hereby discovered, and an opportunity adminis-
tered of throwing it out, and searching all the corners of the heart
to discover where it lay. As God sometimes takes occasion from
one sin to reckon with men, in a way of justice, for others, so
he sometimes takes occasion, from the commission of one sin, to
bring out all the actions against the sinner, to make him, in a
way of gracious wisdom, set more cordially upon the work of
sanctification. A great fall sometimes hath been the occasion of
a man’s conversion. The fall of mankind occasioned a more blessed
restoration; and the falls of particular believers otttimes occasion
a more extensive sanctincation. Thus the only wise God makes
pwoglons in nature to become medicines in a way of grace and
om.
(5.) Hereby the growth in grace is furthered. It is a wonder
of Divine wisdom, to subtract sometimes grace from a person, and
let him fall into sin, thereby to occasion the increase of habitual
grace in him, and to augment it by those ways that seemed to
eprem it. By making sms an occasion of a more vigorous acting,
the contrary grace, the wisdom of God, makes our corruptions, in
their own nature destructive, to become profitable to us. Grace
ellen breaks out more strongl afterwards, as the sun doth with its
heat, alter it hath been masged and interrupted with a mist: they
often, through the mighty working of the Spirit, make us more hum-
ble, and “ humility/ fits us to receive more grace from God” (James
iv. 6). How doth faith, that sunk under the waves, lift up its head
again, and carry the soul out with a greater livelinessl What
ardors of love, what Hoods of repenting tears, what severity of re-
venge, what honors at the remembrance of the sin, what trembling:
at the ap ce of a second temptation I so that grace seems to
awakened to a new and more vigorous life (2 Cor. vii. 11). The
broken `oint is many times stronger in the rupture than it was be-
fore. 'llhe luxuriancy of the branches of corruption is an occasion
of pur ` g, and pur ng is with a design to make grace more fruit-
ful (Jogi xv. 2); “ ge pur eth it, that it ma bring forth more iruit.”
Thus Divine wisdom doth both sharpen andy brighten us by the dust
of sin, and ripen and mellow the fruits of grace by the dung of cor-
ruption. Grace grows the stronger by opposition, as the fire burns
hottest and clearest when it is most surrounded by a cold air; and
our natural heafreassumes a new strength by the coldness of the
Winter. The foil imder a diamond, thou h an imperfection in it-
self, increaseth the beauty and lustre of die stone. The enmigy of
man was a commendation of the grace of God: it occasione the

