544 cmnnocx ON 'mn mrrnrsurss.
breakin out of the grace of God upon us; and is an occasion, by
the wisdom and grace of God, of the increase of grace many times
in us. How should the consideration of God’s incomprehensible
wisdom, in the management of evil, swallow us up   admiration!
who brings forth suc beauty, such eminent discoveries of himself,
such excellent good to the creature, out of the bowels of the great
est contrarieties, making dark shadows serve to display and beautify,
to our apprehensions, the Divine gicgxéyl If evil were not in the
world, men would not know what is; they would not behold
the lustre of Divine wisdom, as wigiout ni ht we could not under-
stand the beauty of the day. Though God is not the author of sin,
because of his holiness, yet he is the administrator of sin by his wis-
dom, and accomplisheth his own purposes, by the iniquities of his
enemies, and the lapses and infirmities of his friends Thus much
for the second, the government of man in his lapsed state, and the
government of sin, wherein the wisdom of God doth wonderfully
a ear.
pgdly. The wisdom of God appears in the government of man in
his conversion and return to him. If there be a counsel in framing
the lowest creature, and in the minutest passages of providence,
there must needs be a higher wisdom in the government of the
creature to a supernatural end, and 'framing the soul to be a monu-
ment of his glory. The wisdom of God is seen with more admira-
tions, and in more varieties, by the angels, in the church than in the
creation Sldph.   10); that is, in forming a church out of the rub-
bish of t e world, out of contrarieties and contradictions to him,
which is greater than the framing a celestial and elementar world
out of a rude chaos. The most glorious bodies in the world, even
those of the sun, moon, and stars, have not such stamps of Divine
skill upon them as the soul of man; nor is there so much of wisdom
in the fabric and faculties of that, as in the reduction of a blind,
wilful, rebellious soul, to its own happiness, and God’s glory (Egh.
i. 11. 12?; “He worketh all things according to the counse of is
own wi l, that we should be for the praise of his glo .” If all
things, then this, which is none of the least of his woxrlks; tothe
praise of the glory of his goodness in his work, and to the praise of
the rule of his work, his counsel, in both the act of his will, and
the act of his wisdom. The restoring of the beauty of the soul, and
its fitness for its true end, speaks no less wisdom than the nrst
draught of it in creation: and the application of redemption, and
bringing forth the fruits of it, is as we an act of his prudence, as
the contrivance was of his counsel. Divine wisdom SPPCBIS,
1. In the subjects of conversion. His goodness reigns in the very
dust, and he erects the walls and ornaments of his temple from the
cla and mud of the world. He passes over the wise, and noble,
and mighty, that may retend some grounds of boasting in their
own natural or acquired) endowments; and pitches upon the most
contcmptiblc materials, wherewith to build a spiritual tabemncle for
himself (1 Cor. i. 26, 27), “the foolish, and weak things of the
world ;” those that are naturally most unfit for it, and most refractory
to it. Herein lies the skill of an architect, to render the most lmotty,

