ON 'rrm wrsnou or con. 545
ezrookedé and inform lpieces, by his art, subservient to .his main pur-
pose an design. T us God hath ordered, from the beginning of
the world, contrary tempers, various humors, diverse nations, as
stones of several natures, to be a building for himselfiitly framed
together, and to be his own family (1 Cor. iii. 9). Who will question
the skill that alters a. black jet into a clear crystal, a glow-worm into
a star, a lion into a lamb, and a swine into a dove? The more in-
tricate and knotty any business is, the more eminent is any man’s
ability and prudence, in untying the knots and bringing it to a good
issue. The more desperate the disease, the more admirable is the
physician’s skill in the cure. He pitches upon men for his service,
who have natural dispositions to serve him in such ways as he dis-
poeeth of them, aRer their conversion: so Paul was naturally a con-
scientious man; what he did a ` st Christ was from the dictates of
an erroneous conscience, soakedgig the Pharisaical interpretations of
the Jewish law: he had a strain of zeal to prosecute what his de-
praved reason and conscience did inform him in. God Epitches upon
this man, and works him in the fire for his service. e alters not
his natural disposition, to make him of a constitution and temper
contrary to what he was before; but directs it to another object,
claps in another bias 'into the bowl, and makes his ill-governed dis-
positions move in a new way of his own appointment, and 'des
that natural heat to the service of that interest which he was iiiiore
ambitious to extirpatie; as a high-mettled horse, when left to him-
self, creates both isturbance and danger, but under the conduct of
a wise rider, moves regularly; not by a change of his natural fierce-
nw, but a skilful management of the beast to the rider’s purpose.
2. In the means of conversion. The prudence of man consists in
the timing the executions of his counsels; and no less doth the wis-
dom of God consist in this. As he is a God of judgment or wisdom,
he waits to introduce his grace into the soul in the Httest season.
This attribute, Paul, in the story of his own conversion, puts a par-
ticular remark upon, which he doth not upon any other; in that
catalogue he reckons up (1 Tim. i. 17), “N ow, unto the King eternal,
immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory, for ever
and ever. Amen.” A most solemn doxology, wherein wisdom sits
upon the throne above all the rest, with a special Amen to the glor
0 it, which refers to the timing of his mercy so to Paul, as mad;
most for the glory of his grace, and the encouragpment of others
from him as the attern. God took him at a time W en he was upon
the brink of helll; when he was ready to devour the new-born in-
fant church at Damascus; when he was armed with all the authority
from without, and fired with all the zeal from within, for the prose-
cution of his design: then God seizeth upon him, and runs him in a
channel for his own honor, and his creatures’ ha piness. It is ob-
servables how God set his eye upon Paul all allong in his furious
course, and lets him have the reins, without putting out his hand to
bridle him ; yet no motion he could take, but the eye of God runs
along with him: he suffered him to kick against the pricks of mira-
tles, and the convincing discourse of Stephen at his martyrdom
Q Which I have upon mother occasion noted.
' vol.. L-35

