ON 'ran wrsnoir or son. 547
means; but effectually, without failing, in accom lishing the end.'
And therefore the Scripture calleth it, teaching (J elim vi. 45), alluring
(Hes. ii. 15), calling us to seek the Lord (Ps. xxvii. 8). Teachin is
an act of wisdom; alluring, an act of love; calling, an act of autio-
rity: but none of them argue a violent constraint. The princi le
that moves the will is supernatural; but the will, as a natural f§c~
ulty, oonclus in the act or motion. God doth not act in this in a
way of absolutekpower, without an infinite wisdom, suiting himself
to the nature o thethings he acts upon: he doth not change the,
physical nature, though he doth the moral. As in the ovemment
of the world, he doth not make heavy things ascenrf nor light
things descend, ordinarily, but guides then' motions according to their
natural qualities: so God doth not strain the faculties beyond their
due pitch. He lets the nature of the faculty remain, but changes
the principle init: the understanding remains understanding, and
the will remains will. But where there was before folly in the un-
derstanding, he puts in a. spirit of wisdom; and where there was
before astoutness in the Will, he forms it to a pliableness to his offers.
He hath a key to fit every ward in the lock, and opens the will
without injuring the nature -of the Will. He doth not change the
soul by an alteration of the faculties, but by an alteration of some-
thing m them: not b an inroad upon them, or by mere power, or
a blind instinct, but lily proposing to ,the understanding something
to be known, and informing it of the reasonableness of his prece ts,
and the innate goodness and excellency of his offers, and by inclin-
ing the will to love and embrace what is pro osed. And things are
proposed under those notions, which usuallgir move our wills and
affections. We are moved by things as they are good, leasant, pront-
able; we entertain things as they make for us, and dldtest things as
the are contrary to us. Nothing affects us but under such qualities,
andy God suits his encouragements to these natural affections which
are in us: his power an wisdom go hand in hand together; his
powerto act what his wisdom orders, and his Wisdom to conduct
what his power executes. He brings men to him in ways suited to
their natural dislppsitions. The stubborn he tea.rs like a lion, the
gentle he wins ` e a turtle, by sweetness; he hath a hammer to
reak the stout, and a cord of love to draw the more pliable tempers:
he works upon the more rational in a. way of gospel reason; upon
the more ingenuous in a way of kindness, and draws them by the
cords of love. The wise men were led to Christ by a star, and
means suited to the knowledge and study that those eastern nations
used, which was much in astronomy: he worketh upon others by
miracles accommodated to every one’s sense, and so roportions the
means according to the nature of the subjects he works upon. '
4. '1‘he wisdom of God is apparent in his discipline and penal evils.
The wisdom of human governments is seen in the matter of their
laws, and in the penalties of their laws, and in the proportion of the
punishment to the offence, and in the good that redounds from the
snunishment either to the offender,_or to the community. The wis-
m of God is seen in_ the penalty of death upon the transgression
' Sanderson, Part IL pL 206.

