54:8 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'I’RIBUTE8.
of his law; both in that it was the greatest evil that man might fear
and so was a convenient means to keep him in his due bound, and
also in the proportion of it to the transgression. Nothing less could
be in a wise justice infiicted upon an offender for a crime against the
highest Being and the Supreme Excellency: but this hath been
spoken of before in the wis om of his laws. I shall only mention
some few; it would be too tedious to run into all.
(1.) His wisdom appears in judgments, in the suiting them to the
qualities ofdpersons, and nature of sins. He deviseth evil (Jer. xviii.
ll); his ju gsrpents are fruits of counsel. “He also is wise, andwill
bring evil” ( _ xxxi. 2),-evil suitable to the erson offending, and
evil suitable to the offence committed: as the Eusbandman doth his
threshing instruments to the ain: he hath a rod for the cummin, 5
tenderer seed, and a flail for tile harder; so, hath God greater judg-
ments for the obdurate sinner, and lighter for those that have some-
thing of tenderness in their wickedness (Isa. xxviii. 27, 29): “Be-
cause he is wonderful in counsel and excellent in workin ;" sosome
understand the place, “ With the howard., he will show Iiimselfiro-
ward.” He proportions punishment to the sin, and writes the cause
of the judgment in the forehead of the judgment itself Sodom
burned in lust, and was consumed by fire from heaven. The Jews
sold Christ for thirty pence; and at the takin of Jerusalem, thirty
of them were sold for a penn . So Adonibezeqc cut off the thumbs
and great toes of others, and lie is served in the same kind (J udgesi.
7). l‘he Babel builders designed an indissoluble union, and God
brings upon them an unintelligible confusion. And in Exod. ix. 9,
the ashes of the furnace where the Israelites burnt the Egyptian
bricks, s rinkled towards heaven, brought boils upon the Egyptian
bodies, that they might feel in their own, what pain they had caud
in the Israelites flesh; and ind, by the smart of the inflamed scab,
what they had made the Israelites endure. The waters of the river
N ilus are t\u°ned into blood, wherein they had stifled the breath of
the Israelites’ infants: and at last the prince, and the flower of their
nobility, are drowned in the Red Sea. It is part of the wisdom of
justice to ro ortion punishment to the crime, and the degrees of
wrath to the degrees of malice in the sin. Afilictions also are wisely
proportioned: God, as a wise physician, considers the nature of the
umor and strength of the patient, and suits his medicines both to
the one and the other (1 Cor. x. 13).
(2.) In the seasons of punishments and aiiiictions. He staystill
sin be ripe, that his justice may appear more equitable, and the
oifender more inexcusable (Dan. ix. 14); he watches u n the evil
to bring it u n men ; to bring it in the just season andpgrder forliis
righteous angogracious purpose; his righteous purpose on the ene-
mies, and his gracious purpose on his people. erusalem’s calamity
came upon them, when the city was full of people at the solemnity
of the passover, that he might mow down his enemies at once, and
time their destruction to such a moment wherein they had timed U10
crucifixion of his Son. He watched over the clouds of his judg-
ments, and kept them from pourin down, till his peo le, the Chris-
tians, were provided for, and hm? departed out of Sie city to the

