on 'nm wrsnon or con. 549
chambers and retiring places God had provided for them. He made
not Jerusalem the shambles of his enemies, till he had made Pella,
and other places, the arks of his friends. As Pliny tells us, “ The
Evidence of God holds the sea in a calm for ‘dfteen days, that the
cyons, little birds that frequent the shore, may build their nests,
and hatch up their young." The judgment u on Sodom was sus-
pended for some hours, till Lot was secured. §od suifered not the
church to be invaded by violent persecutions, till she was established
in the iaith: he would not expose her to so great combats, while
she was weak and feeble, but gave her time to fortify herself, to be
rendered more capable of bearing up under them! He stifled all
the motions of passion the idolaters might have for their superstition,
till ` 'on was in such a. condition, as rather to be increased and
pturifi than extinguished b opposition. Paul was secured from
ero‘s chains, and the nets oily his enemies, till he had broke off the
chain ofthe devil from .many cities of the Gentiles, and catched them
by the net of the gospel out of the sea of the world. Thus the wis-
dom of God is seen in the seasons _of judgments and aiilictions.
(3.) It is apparent in the gracious issue of afilictions and penal
evils It is a part of wisdom to bring good out of evil of punish-
ment, as well as to bring good out of sin. The church never was so
like to heaven, as when it was most persecuted by hell: the storms
often cleansed it and the lance often made it more healthful. Job’s
integrity had not been so clear, nor his patience so illustrious, had
not the devil been permitted to aiilict him. God, by his wisdom,
outwits Satan; when he by his temptations intends to pollute us and
buffet us, God orders it to urify us; he often brin the clearest
light out of the thickest dadliness, makes poisons toligecome medi-
cines. Death itself; the greatest punishment in this life, and the en-
trance into hell in its own nature, he hath b his wise contrivance,
made to his people the gate of heaven, and tile passage into immor-
tality.” Penal evils in a nation often end in a public advantage:
troubles and wars amon a people are many times not destro »`ng,
but medicinal, and cure them of that degeneracy, luxury, and eélmi-
nateness, they contracted by a long peace.
(4.) This wisdom is evident in the various ends which God brings
about by aillictions. The attainment of various ends by one and
the same means, is the fruit of the agent’s prudence. By the same
aiiliction, the wise God corrects sometimes for some base affection,
excites some sleepy grace, drives out some lurking corruption, reines
the soul, and ruins the lust; discovers the greatness of a crime, the
vanity of the creature, and the sufficienc in himselfl The Jews
bind Paul, and by the judge he is sent to llome; while his mouth is
stopped in Judea, it is opened in one of the greatest cities of the
word, and his enemies unwittin ly contribute to the increase of the
knowledge of Christ by those grains, in that city (Acts xxviii. 313
that triumphed over the earth. And his afflictive bonds adde
courage an resolution to others (Phil. i. Mg: “ Many waxing confi-
dent y m bonds;” which could not in t eir own nature produce
such an efzct, but by the order and contrivance of Divine wisdom:
' Daille sur 1 Cor. x. p. 800. I Turretiu, Scrm- p. 58,

