_ ON 'rms wrsnou or con. 551
vht have l ed their enemies, thered his o le into a bod ,
:did protecteliiaicliiem l;y the bulwargaof a cloud alhfdg. pillar of iirii,
against the assaults o their enemies. But he uses the differences
between the Persians and those of Babylon, to accomplish his ends.
How sometimes hath the veering about of the wind on a sudden
been the loss of a na.vE when it hath been put upon the point of
victory, and driven bac the destruction upon those which intended
it for others! and the accidental stumbling, or the natural fierceness
of a horse, flung down a general in the midst of a battle, where he
hath lost his life by the throng, and his death hath brought a defeat
tb his army, and deliverance to the other part , that were upon the
brink of ruin! Thus doththe wisdom of God’ link things together
according to natural order, to work out his intended preservation
ofa people. [2.] In the season of deliverance. The timing of affairs
is a part of the wisdom of man, and an eminent part of the wisdom
of God. It is in due season he sends the former and the latter rain,
when the earth is in the greatest indigence, and when his influences
may most contribute to the bringing forth and ripening the fruit.
The dumb creatures have their meat from him in due season (Ps.
civ. 27): and in his due season have his darling)people their deliver~
mee. When Paul was upon his journey to amascus with a per-
secuting commission, he is struck down for the security of the church
in that city. The nature of the lion is changed in due season, for
the preservation of the lambs from worrying. The Israelites are
miraculously rescued from Egypt, when their wits were at a loss,
when their danger to human understanding was unavoidable; when
earth and sea refused protection, then the wisdom and wer of
heaven steppled in to effect that which was past the skill oixihe con-
ductors of t at multitude. And when the lives of the Jews la at
the stake, and their necks were upon the block at the mercy of their
enemies’ swords by an order from Shushan, not only a reprieve, but
a triumph, arrives to the Jews, by the Wisdom of God guiding the
atfair, whereby of persons designed to execution, they are made
conquerors, and have opportunity to exercise their revenge instead
of their atience, proving triumphers where the expected to be
sufferers €Esth. viii. 9). How strangely doth God? by secret way
bow the hearts of men and the nature of things to the execution 0?
that which he designs, notwithstanding all the resistance of that which
would traverse the security of his people! How often doth he trap
the wicked in the work of their own hands, make their confidence
lb become their ruin, and ensnare them in those nets they wrought
and laid for others (Ps. ix. 16)l “The wicked is snared in the work
of his own hands. He scatters the proud in the imagination of their
hearts” (Luke i. 51), in the hei ht of their hopes, when their designs
have been laid so deep in the goundation, an knit and cemented so
close in their superstructure, that no human ower or wisdom could
rasethem down: he hath then disa pointed) their projects, and be-
fooled their craft. How often hath be kept back the fire, when it
hath been ready to devour; broke the arrows when they have been
pripared in the bow; turned the spear into the bowels ofthe beare
an wounded them at the very mstant they were ready to wounla

