ON 'mn wrsnorr or con. 558
outmore gloriously to men and angels. All things are weaker the
thinner they are extended, but stronger the more they are imited
and wmpacted in one body and appearance. In Christ, in the dis-
pensation by him, as well as his person, were “ hid all the treasures
of wisdom and knowledge” (Coloss.   3). Some doles of wisdom
were gven out in creation, but the treasures of it opened in redemp-
tion, e hi hest degrees of it that ever God did exert in the worl .
Christ is tgerefore called the “wisdom of God,” as well as the
“power of God” (1 Cor. i. 24); and the (gospel is called the “wisdom
o God.” Christ is the wisdom of Go principally, and the gos l
instrumentally, as it is the power of God instrumentally to subdiiee
the heart to himself This is wrapped up in the appointing Christ
as Redeemer, and opened to us m the revelation of it by the
l.
gollelt is a hidden wisdom. In this regard God is said, in the text,
tobe onlywise: and it is said to be a “hidden wisdom” (1 Tim. i.
17), and “ wisdom in a mystery" (1 Cor. ii. 7), incomprehensible to
the ordinary capacity of an angel, more than the obstruse qualities
of the creatures are to the un erstanding of man. No wisdom of
mg; angtel; is agle to searcih the izieirglofhthgs mine,fto tellhall the
of `we,ortonnerstan teustreoit;teare
as far from an ability fully to comprehend it, as they were at dist to
contrive it. That wisdom that invented it can onl comprehend it.
In the uncreated understanding onl there is a ell'-:arness of light
without an shadow of darkness. '%Ve come as short of full appre-
henisions ofy it, as a child doth of the counsel of the wisest prince.
It is so hidden from us, that, without revelation, we could not have
the least ima?`nation of it; and though it be revealed to us, yet,
without the elp of an iniiniteness of understanding, we cannot
fully fathom it: it is such a tractate of divine wisdom, that the an-
Tls never before had seen the edition of it, till it was published to
t e world (Eph.   10): “ to the intent that now unto principalities
and powers in heavenly (places might be known by the church the
manifold wisdom of Go .” Now made known to t em, not before-
and now made known to them “in the heavenly places.” They had
not the knowledge of all heavenly mysteries, though they had the
possession of heavenly glory: they knew the rop ecies of it in the
word, but attained not a clear interpretation ol? those prophecies till
the things that were prophesied of came upon the stage.
2. Manifold wisdom: so it is called. As manifold as mysterious:
variety in the mystery, and mystery in ever'y part of the variety.
It was not one single act but a variety of counsels met in rt; a con-
junction of excellent ends and excellent means. The glory of God,
the salvation of man, the defeat of the apostate angels, the discov~
;liy of the blessed Trinity in their nature, operations, their combin-
and distinct acts and expressions of goodness. The means are
the conjunction of two natures, infinitely distinct from one another;
the union of eternit and time, of mortality and immortality: death
is made the way to life, and shame the path to glory. The weak-
ness of the cross is the reparation of man, and the creature is made
Wise by the “foolishness of prea»ching;” fallen man grows rich by

