ON THE WISDOM OF GOD. ' 555
of his crime. He is a rebel, not by necessity, but will. What con-
straint was there upon him to listen to the counsels of the enemy
of God? What force could there be upon him, since it is Without
the compass of any/ creature to work upon, or constrain the will?
Nothing of ignorance can excuse him ; the law was not ambiguously
expressed, but in plain words, both as to precept and penalty; it was
writ in his natu.re in legible characters: had he received any disgust
from thee aiter his creation, it would not excuse his apostasy, since,
as a Sovereign, thou wert not obliged to thy creature. Thou hadst
provided all things richly for him; he was crowned with glory and
onor: thyiiniinite power had bestowed upon him an habitation
richly furnished, and varieties of servants to attend him. Whatever
he viewed without, and whatever he viewed. within himself, were
several marks of thy Divine bounty, to engage him to obedience:
had there been some reason of any disgust, it could not have bal-
anced that kindness which had so much reason to oblige him: how-
ever, he had received no courtesy from the fallen angel, to oblige
himto turn into his camp. Was- it not enough, that one of thy
creatures would have stripped thee of the glory of heaven, but this
also must deprive thee of thy~ lory upon earth, which was due from
him to thee as his Creator? San he charge the difficulty of' the
command? No: it was rather below, than above his strengzh. He
might rather complain that it was no higher, whereby his 0 dience
an gratitude mig t have a larger scope, and a more 'spacious Held
to move in than a prece t so light; so easy, as to abstain from one
fruit in the garden.» Wliat excuse can he have, that would prefer
the liquorishness of his sense before the dictates of his reason, and
the obligations of his creation? The law thou didst set him was
righteous and reasonable; and shall righteousness and reason be re-
jected by the supreme and infallible reason, because the rebellious
creature hath tram led upon it? Whatl must God abrogate his
holy law, because the creature hath slighted it? What reficction
wil this be upon the wisdom that enacted it, and upon the equity
of the command and sanctionrof it? Either man must suffer, on
the holy law be expunged, and forever out of i -date. And is it not
better man should eternally smart under his crime, than any dis~
honorable reflections of unri hteousness be cast upon the law, and
of folly, and want of foresight u n the Law `ver? Notto punish,
would be to approve the devil’s E; and justigfl the creature’s revolt.
It would be a condemnation of thy own law as unrighteous, and a
sentencing thy own wisdom- as imprudent. Better man should for-
ever bear the punishment of his offence, than God bea.r the dishonor
of his attributes: better man should be miserable than God should
be unrighteous, unwise, false, and tamely bear the denial of his
sovereignty. But what advantage would it be to gratify mercy by
nxrdoning the malefactor? Besides the irreparable dishonor to the
w, the falsifying th veracity in not executing ,the denounced
threatenings, he would' receive encouragement by such a grace to
§purn more at thy sovereignty, and oppose thy holiness by running on
lnacourse of sin with hopes of impunity; If the creature be res-
'\01'ed, it cannot be expected that he that th fared so well, atterthnl

