556 cnarmocx ON 'run ATTRIBUTES.
breach of it, should be very careful of a future observance: hiseasy
readmission would abet him in the repetition of hisoifence, and thou
shalt soon find him cast off all moral dependence on thee. Shallhe
be restored without any condition, or covenant? He is a creature
not to be governed without a law, and a law is not to be enacted
without a. penalt . What future regard will he have to thy preoept,
or what fear   he have of tlhy threatening, if his crime be so
lightly ast over? Is it the stab' ity of thy word? What reason
will he have to give credit to that, which he hath found already dis-
regarded by thyself? Thy truth in future threatenings will be of
no force with him, who hath experienced thy la ing it aside in the
former. It is necessary, therefore, that the rebellious creature should
be punished for the preservation of the honor of the law, and the
honor of the Lawgiver, with all those perfections that are united in
the com osure of it. `
(2.) hferoy doth not want a plea. It is true, indeed, the sinof
man wants not its aggravations: he hath slighted thy goodness, and
accepted thy enemy as his counsellor; but it was not a pure act of
his own, as the devil’s revolt was: he had atempter, and the devil
had none: he had, I acknowledge, an understandin to know thy
will, and a power to obey it; yet he was mutable, andirad a capacity
to fall. It was no diiiicult task that was set him, nor a hard yoke
that was laid upon him; yet he had a brutish art, as well as a
rational, and sense as well as soul; whereas the iiillen angel was a
Pure intellectual spirit. Did God create the world to suffer an eter-
nal dishonor, in letting himself be outwitted b ~ Satan, and his work
wrested out of his hands? Shall the work oiy eternal cormsel pres
ently sink into ir're arable destruction, and the honor of an almighty
and wise work be lrdst in the ruin of the creature? This wouldseem
contrary to the nature of thy goodness, to make man only to render
him miserable: to design him in his creation for the service of the
devil, and not for the service of his Creator. What else could be
the issue, if the chief work of thy hand, defaced presently after the
erecting, should forever remain in this marred condition? What
can be expected upon the continuance of his misery, but zzperpetual
hatred, and enmity of thy creature   thee? Did G in crea-
tion desi his being hated, or his ing loved by his creature?
Shall Godnmake a. holy law, and have no obedience to that law from
that creature whom it was made to govern ? Shall the cluious work-
manship of God, and the excellent engravings of the law of nature
in his heart, be so soon defhced, and remain .in that blotted condition
forever? This fall thou couldst not but in the treasures of thy in-
finite knowledge foresee. Why hadst thou goodness then to create
him in an inte `ty, if thou wouldst not, have mercylto pity him in
misery? Shallrihy enemy forever trample upon t e honor of thy
work, and triumph over the glor of God, and applaud himself in
the success of his subtilty? Shallythy creature only passively glorify
thee as an aven er, and not actively as a compawionater? Am not
I a perfection 0% thy nature as well as justice? Shall justice engrol
all, and I never come into view? It is resolved already, that the
fallen angels shall be no subjects for me to exercise myself upon;

