ON ms wrsnon or con. 557
and I have now less reason than before to plead for them: they fel]
with a full consent of will, without any motion from another; and
not content with their own apostasy they envy thee, and thy glory
upon earth, as well as in heaven, and have drawn into their party
the best part of the creation below. Shall Satan lunge the whole
creation m the same irreparable ruin with himself; If the creature
be restored, will he contract a boldness in sin by impurity? Hast
thou not a grace to render him ingenuous .in obedience, as well as a
compassion to recover him from misery? What will hinder, but
that such a grace, which hath established the standing angels, may
establish this recovered creature? If I am utterly excluded from
exercising myself on men, as I have been from devils, a whole species
islost; nay, I can never expect to appear upon the stage: if thou
wilt quite ruin him by justice, and create anot er world, and another
man, if he stand, thy bounty will be eminent, yet there is no room
for mercy to act, unless by the commission of sin, he exposeth him-
selfto misery ; and if sin enter into another world, I have little ho
to be heard then if I am rejected now. Worlds will be perpetualla;
created by oodness, wisdom, and épower; sin entering into these
worlds, willie perpetually punishe by justice; and mercy, which
is a perfection o thy nature, will forever be commanded silence, and
lie wrapt up in an eternal darkness. Take occasion now, therefore,
to expose me to the knowledge of thy creature, since without misery,
mercy can never set foot into the world. Mercy pleads, if man be
ruined, the creation is in vain ; justice pleads, if man be not sen-
tenced, the law is in vain ; truth backs justice, and grace abets mercy.
Whatshall be done in this seemin contradiction? Mercy is not
manifested, if man be not pardoneg; justice will complain, if man
be not punished.
(3.) An ex 'ent is found out, by the wisdom of God, to answer
these deman and ad'ust the differences between them. The wis-
dom of God answers, Ilwill satisfy your pleas. The pleas of justice
shallbe satisfied in punishing, and the pleas of mercy shall be re-
ceived in pardoning. Justice shall not complain for want of plmish-
ment, nor mercy for want of compassion. I will have an infinite
Sacritice to content justice; and the virtue and fruit of that sacrifice
shall delight mercy. Here shall justice have punishment to accept,
and merc *shall have pardon to bestow. The rights of both are
preserved? and the demands of both amicably accorded in punish-
ment and pardon, by transferring the punishment of om* crimes upon
R surety, exacting a recompense from his blood by justice, and con-
ferring life and salvation upon us by mercy without the expense of
one drop of our own. Thus is justice satisfied in its severities, and
mercy in its indulgences. The riches of grace a.re twisted with the
terrors of wrath. The bowels of mercy are wound about the Haming
sword of justice, and the sword of gustice protects and secures the
bowels of mercy. Thus is God rig teous without being cruel, and
merciful without being unjust; his righteousness inviolable, and the
world recoverable. Thus is a resplendent mercy brought forth in
the midst of all the curses, confusions, and wrath threatened to the
ofender. This is the admirable temperament found out by the wis-

