4
558 CHARNOCK ON 'rrrs Arriusurns.
dom of God: his °ustice is honored in the sufferings of man’s surety;
and his mercy is lionored in the application of the ropitiation to
offender Sltom. iii. 24, 25): “ Being justified hedly by his grace,
through t e redemption that is in Jesus Christ: whom God hath set
forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his
righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the for-
bearance of God.” Had we in our persons been sacrifices to justice,
mercy had forever been unknown; had we been solely fostered by
mercy, justice had forever been secluded; had we,`being guilty,
been absolved, mercy might have rejoiced, and justice mi ht have
complained; had we been solel unished, justice woidd have
triumphed, and mercy grieved. BZ1tq>y this medium of redemption,
neither hath 'ground of complaint; justice hath nothing to charge,
when the punishment is inflicted; mercy hath whereof to boast when
the surety is accepted. The debt of the sinner is transferred upon
the surety, that t e merit of the surety may be conferred upon the
sinner; so that God now deals with om- sins in a way of consuming
jlustice, and with our persons in a way of relieving mercy. It is
ighly better, and more glorious, than if the claim of one had been
anted, with the exclusion of the demand of the other; it had then
gen either an unrighteous mercy, or a merciless justice; it is now a
righteous mercy, and a merciful justice.
2. The wisdom of God ap ars in the subject or person wherein
these were accorded; the gcond Person is the blessed Trinity.
There was a congruity in the Son’s undertaking and effecting it
rather than an other person, according to the order of the persons,
and the several flmctions of the persons, as represented in Scripture.
The Father, after creation, is the lawgiver, and presents man with
the image of his own holiness and the way to his creatures’ halppi-
ness; but a&er the fall, man was too impotent to perform the aw,
and too polluted to enjoy a felicity._ Redemption was then neces-
sary; not that it was necessary for God to redeem man, but it was
necessary for man’s happiness that he should be recovered. To this
the Second Person is appointed, that by communion with him, man
might derive a hap iness, and be brought again to God. But since
man was blind in   understanding, and an enemy in his will to
God, there must be the exerting of a. virtue to enlighten his mind,
and bend his will to understan , and accept of this redemption; and
this work is assigned to the Third Person, the Holly Ghost.
(L) It was not congruous that the Father sho d assume human
nature, and suffer in it for the redemption of man. He was first in
order; he was the lawgiver, and therefore to be the judge. AB
lawgiver, it was not convenient he should stand in the stead of the
law-breaker; and as judge, it was as little convenient he should be
reputed a malefactor. That he who had made a law against sin de-
nounced a penalty upon the commission of sin, and whose part it
was actually to Ennis the sinner, should become sin for the wilful
transgressor of is law. He being the rector, how could he be an
advocate and intercessor to himself? How could he be the judge
and the sacrihce? a judge, and yet a. mediatnr to himself? If 0
had been the sacr`ce, there must be some person to examine the vl-

