ON THE wxsnou or ooo. 559
lidity of it, and ronoimce the sentence of acceptance. Was it
able that the Sion should sit upon a throne of judgment, and the
Father stand at the bar, and be responsible to the Son? That the
Son should be in the place of a governor, and the Father in the
place of the criminal? That the Father should be bruised (Isa. liii.
10) by the Son, as the Son was by the Father (Zech. xiii. 7 0)? that
the Son should awaken a sword against the Father, as the Father
did against the Son? That the Father should be sent by the Son,
as the Son was by the Father (Gal. iv. 4)? The order of the rsons
in the blessed Trinit had been inverted and disturbed. Iliaiil the
Father been sent, he had not been first in order; the sender is before
the person sent: as the Father begets, and the son is begotten (John
i. 14), so the Father sends, and the son is sent. He whose orders is
to send, cannot properly send himself
(2.) 'Nor was it con ous that the Spirit should be sent upon this
affair. If the Holy (§lidst had been sent to redeem us, and the Son
to apply that redemption to us, the order of the Persons had also
been inverted; the Spirit, then, who was third in order, had been
second in operation. The Son would then have received of the
Spirit, as the Spirit doth now of Christ, “and shew it unto us” (John
i. 15). As the Spirit proceeded from the Father and the Son, so the
proper function and operation of it was in order after. the opera-
tions of the Father an the Son. Had the S irit been sent to re-
deem us, and the Son sent by the Father, anti) the Spirit to a ply
that redemption to us, the Son in his acts had oceeded iiom
the Father and the Spirit; the Spirit, as sender, had” been in order
beibre the Son ; whereas, the Spuit is called “the Spirit of Christ,”
as sent by Christ hom the “Fat er” (Gal. iv. 6 ; John xv. 27). But
as the order of the works, so the order of the Persons is preserved
in their several 0 rations. Creation, and a law to govern the crea-
ture, precedes rerleemption. Nothing, or that which hath no being,
is not capable of a redeemed being. Redemption supposeth the ex-
istence and the misery of a person redeemed. As creation precedes
redemption, so redempltion precedes the application of it. As re-
demption supposeth t e being of the creature, so application of re-
demption supposeth the efiicacy of redemption. According to the
order of these works, is the order of the operations of the Three
Persons Creation belongs to the Father, the first person; redemp-
tion, the second work, is the function of the Son, the second person;
application, the third work, is the oiiice of the Holy Ghost, t e third
person. The Father orders it, the Son acts it, the Holy Ghost ap-
plies it He uriiies our souls to understand, believe, and love these
mysteries. Ife forms Christ in the womb of the soul, as he did the
body of Christ in the womb of the Virgin. As the Spirit of God
moved upon the waters, to garnish and adorn the wor d, after the
matter of it was formed (Gen. i. 2), so he moves upon the heart, to
supple it to a compliance with Christ, and draws t e lineaments of
the new creation in the soul, after the foundation is laid. The Son
pays the tplrice that was due from us to God, and the Spiritis the
earnest of e promises of life and glory purchased by the merit of that

