ON nn: wrsnon or son, - 561
tations is the wisdom of God to unite finite and infinite, almighti-
ness and weakness, immortality and mortality, immutability, with a
thing sub`ect to change; to have a nature from eternity, and yet a
nature subject to the revolutions of time; a nature to make a law,
anda nature to be subjected to the law; to be God blessed forever,
in the bosom of his Father, and an infant exposed to calamities from
the womb of his mother: terms seeming most distant from union,
most uncapable of conjunction, to shake hands together, to be most
intimately conjoined; glory and vileness, fulness and emptiness,
heaven and earth; the creature with the Creator; he that made all
things, in one person with a nature that is made; Immanuel, God,
and man in one; that which is most spiritual to artake of that
which is carnal fiesh and blood (Heb.   14); one witlli the Father in
his Godhead, one with us in his manhood; the Godhead to be in him
in the fullest perfection, and the manhood in the greatest urity; the
creature one with the Creator, and the Creator one witli) the crea-
ture. Thus is the incomprehensible wisdom of God declared in the
“ Word being made flesh."
2d. In the manner of this union. A union of two natures, yet no
natural union. It transcends all the unions visible among creatures :'
it is not like the union of stones in a buildin , or two pieces of tim~
ber fastened to ether, which touch one another only in their super-
licies and outside, without any intimacy with one another. By such
a kind of union God would not be a man: the Word could not so
bemade flesh. Nor is it a union of parts to the whole, as the mem-
bers and the body; the members are parts, the body is the whole;
for the whole results from the parts, and depends upon the parts:
but Christ, being God, is independent upon anything. The parts
are in order of nature before the whole, but nothing can bein order
of nature before God. Nor is it asthe union of two liquors, as when
wine and water are mixed together, for they are so incorporated as
notto be distinguished 'from one another; no man can tell which
Rrtiele is wine, and which is water. But the properties of the
'vine nature are distinguishable from the (properties of the human.
Nor is it as the union of the soul and bo y, so as that the Deity is
the form ofthe humanity, as the soul is the form of the body: for as
the soul is but a part of the man, so the Divinity would be then but
a part of the humanity; and as a form, or the soul, is in a state of
imperfection, without that which it is to inform, so the Divinity of
Christ would have been imperfect till it had assumed the humanity,
and so the perfection of an eternal Deity would have depended on a
creature of time. This union of two natures in Christ is incompre-
hensible: and it is a mystery we cannot arrive to the top oi; how the
Divine nature, which is the same with that of the Father and the
Holy Ghost, should be united to the human nature, without its being
said that the Father and the Holy Ghost were united to the flesh;
but the Scri ture doth not enco e an such notion; it speaks
Only ofthe Vgord, the person of the ld ord being made flesh, and in
lllsbeing made flesh, distinguisheth him from the Father, as “ the
'Savana Triump. Crucis, lib. iii. cap. 7. p. 211.
vor.. 1.-36 ~

