ON 'rim wrsnou or son. 563
it remains united in heaven. It was not an°image or an apparition,
asthe tongues wherein the Spirit came upon the aplostles, were a
temporary representation, not a thing unite perpetua y to the per-
son of the Holy Ghost.
(4.) It was a personal union. It was not an union of persons,
though it was a rsonal union; so Davenant expounds (Col. ii. 9),
Christ did not tak; the person of man, but the nature of man into
subsistence with himselil, The body and soul of Christ were not
united in themselves, had no subsistence in themselves, till they
were united to the person of the Son of God. If the person of a
man were united to him, the human nature would have been the
nature of the person so united to him, and not the nature of the Son
of God (Heb. ii. 14, 16), “ Forasmuch then as the children are par-
takers of flesh and blood, he also himself' likewise took art of the
same; that through death he might destroy him that had) the power
of death, that is, the devil. For verily he took not on him the na~
ture of angels; but he took on him the seed of Abraham." He took
flesh and blood to be his own nature, perpetuall to subsist in the
person of the /16704, which must be b a personal1union, or no way:
the Deity united to the humanity, andy both natures to be one person.
This is the mysterious and manifold wisdom of God.
3d_ The end of this union.
(1.) He was hereby itted to be a Mediator. He hath something
like to man, and something like to God. If he were in all things
only like to man, he would be at a distance from God: if he were in
allthings only like to God, he would be at a distance from man.
He is a true Mediator between mortal sinners and the immortal
righteous One. He was near to us by the infirmities of- our nature
and near to God by the perfections of the Divine; as near to God
mhisnature, astousin ours; asneartousin our nature, as he is
toGod in the Divine. Nothing that belongs to the Deit , but he
possessm; nothin that belongs to the human nature, but he is
clothed with. Heaiad both the nature which had offended, and that
nature which was offended: a nature to please God, and a nature to
pleasure us: a nature, whereby he experimentally knew the excel-
Gncy of God, which was injured, and understood the glory due to
him, and consequently the greatness of the offence, which was to be
measured by the dignity of his person: and a nature whereby he
might be sensible of the miseries contracted by, and endure the
calamities due to the ofender, that he might both have com assion
on him, and make due satisfaction for him. He had ‘two distinct
natures capable of the affections and sentiments of the two persons
he was to accord ; he was a just jud e of the rights of the one, and
the demerit of the other.° He could not have this full and perfect
understanding if he did not possess the perfections of the one, and
the qualities of the other; the one Htted him for “things appertain-
lllg to God” (Heb. v. 1), and the other furnished him with a sense of
the “iniirmities of man” (Heb. iv. 15).
(2.) He was hereby fitted for the working out the happinem of
man. A Divine nature to communicate to man, and a human na-
' Gomb. de Relig. p. 42.

