564 cnsmrocx on 'rua `A'l'I'RIBU'I’ES.
ture to carry up to God.” [th] Hehad a nature whereby to suH`er
for us, and a nature where y to be meritoriousrin those sufferings.
A nature to make him capable to bear the penalty, and a nature to
make his sufferings sufficient for all that embraced   A nature,
capable to be exposed to the flames of Divine wrath, and another
nature,°incapable to be crushed by the weight, or consumed bythe
heat of it: a. human nature to suffer, an stand a sacrifice in the
stead of man; a Divine nature to sanctigy these suilferin and ‘dll
the nostrils of God with a sweet savor, an thereby atone   wrath:
the one to bear the stroke due to us, and the other to add meritto his
sufferings for us. Had he not beentman, he could not have filled our
place in suffering ; and could he otherwise have suffered, his sufferings
ad not been applicable' to us; and had he not been God, his sufferings
had not been meritoriously and fruitfully applicable. Had not his
blood been the blood of God, it had been of as little advantage as the
blood of ‘an ordinary man, or the blood of the le§al sacrifices (Heh.
ix. 12% Nothing lem than God could have satisiie God for the injury
done y man. Nothing less than God could have countervailed the
torments due to the offending creature. Nothing less than God could
have rescued us out of the hands of the jailor, too powerful for us.
[2.] He had, therefore, a nature to be compassionate to u and vic
torious for us. A nature sensibly to compamionate us, ani another
nature, to render those compassrons effectual for our relief; he had
the compassions of our nature to ity us, and the patience of the
Divine nature to bear with us. Helhath the affections of a man to
us, and the power of a God for us: a nature to disarm the devil for us,
and another nature to be insensible of the working of the devil in bg
and against us. If he had been only God, he would not have
an experimental sense of our misery; and if he had been only man,
he could not have vanquished our enemies; had he been only God,
he could not have died; and had he been only man, he could not
have conquered death. [3.] A nature efiicaciously to instruct us.
As man, he was to instruct us sensibly; as God, he was to instruct
us infallibly. A nature, whereby he might converse with us, and a
nature, whereby he might iniiuence us in those converses. A human
mouth to minister instruction to man, and a Divine power to imprint
it with eiiicacy. XL] A natureto be a pattern to us. A patternof
grace as man, as dam was to have been to his posterity :b a Divine
nature shinin in the human, the image of the invisible God in the
lass of our flesh, that he might be a erfect copy for our imitation
ECOI. i. 15), “The image of the invisible God, an the first-born of
every creature” in conjunction. The virtues of the Deity are sweet-
ened and tempered by the union with the humanity, as the beams
of the son are by shininp through a colored glam, which condescends
more to the weakness o our eye. Thus the perfections of the invis-
ible God,break:;1§ thro h the Hrst-born of eve creature,  
in Christ’s crea statellbecame more sensible lilir contemp ation by
our mind, and more imitiable for conformity in our practice. [5.]
nature to be a ground of confidence in our approach to God. A
nature wherein we may behold him, and wherein we may approach
\ Amyraut. Morals. Tom. V. pp. 468, 469.

