ON rm: wrsnon or con. 565
to him. A nature for our comfort, and a nature. for our confidence.
Had he been only man, he had been too feeble to assure us; and
had hebeen only God, he had been too high to attract us: but now
we are allured by his human nature, and assiued by his Divine, in
our drawing near to heaven. Communion with God was desired by
us, but our guilt stifled our hopes, and the iniinite excellency of the
Divine nature would have damped our hopes of speeding; but since
these two natures, so far distant, are met in a marriage-knot, we have a
ground of hope, nay, an earnest, that the Creator and believing creature
shall meet and converse together. And since our sins are expatiated
bythe death of the human nature in conjunction with the Divine,
our guilt, ugn believing, shall not hinder us from this comfortable
approach. ad he been only man, he could not have assured us an
a preach to God: had he been only God, his justice would not have
admitted us to approach to him; he had been too terrible for guilty
persons, and too oly for polluted persons to come near to him: but
y being made man, his justice is tempered, and b his being God
and man, his mercy is ensured A human nature lie had, one with
us, that we might be related to God, as one 'with him. [6.] A nature
to derive all good to us. Had he not been man, we had had no
share or [part in him: a satisfaction by him had not been im uted
to us. he were not God, he could not communicate to us fivine
graces and eternal happiness; he could not have had ower to con-
vey so great a good to us, had he been only -man; an<i)he could not
have done it, according to the rule of inflexible righteousness, had
he been only God. As man, he is the way of conveyance; as God,
he is the spring of conveyanw. From this grace of union, and the
grace of unction, we End rivers of waters flowing to make glad the
city of God. Believers are his branches, and draw sap from him, as
he is their root in his human nature, and have an endless duration
of it from his Divine. Had he not been man, he had not been in a
state to obey the law; had he not been God as well as man, his obe-
dience could not have - been valuable to be imputed to us. How
should this mystery be studied by us, which would afford us both
admiration and content! Admiration, in the incom rehensibleness
of it; contentment, in the fitness of the Mediator. gy this wisdom
of God we receive the props of our faith, and the fruits of joy and
peace. Wisdom consists in choosing fit means, and conducting them
in such a method, as may reach with good success the variety of
marks which are aimed at. Thus hath the wisdom of God set forth
a Mediator, suited to our wants, fitted for our supplies, and ordered
so the whole aiiair by the union of these two natures in the person
of the Redeemer, that there could be no disappointment, by all the
bustle hell and hellish instruments could raise against it.
4. The wisdom of God is seen in this way of redemption, in vin-
dicating the honor and righteousness of the law, both as to precept
and penalvizy. 'I‘he first and irreversible design of the law was obe-
dience. he penalty of the law had only entrance u on transgres-
sion. Obedience was the design, and the penalty was added to enforce
the observance of the recept (Gen. ii. 17): “ 'l‘hou shalt not eat ;”
there is the precept: “Yu the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt die ;"

