ON 'mm wrsnon or Gov. 567
is there any matter, but that of terror, afforded by any of these?
But when we behold, in the life of Ch1'ist, a conformity to the man-
datory part of the law, and_1n the cross of Christ, a sustaining the
mniiatczry partdipf thetizzkvli   Iivgsdom 'gif gpdngges ahwell-grounded
an ra iona miss e rrors a a ize pon us.
5. The wisdom of Gold in redemption is visible in manifesting two
contrary affections at t e same time an in one act: t e greatest
hatred of sin, and the greatest love th) the sinner. In this way he
punishes the sin without r\1ining the sinner, and repairs the ruins of
the sinner without indulging the sin. Here is eternal love and eter~
nal hatred; a condemning] the sin to what it merited, and an ad
vancmg the sinner to w at he could not expect. Herein 18 the
choicest love and the deepest hatred manifested: an_ implacableness
against the sin, and a placableness to the sinner. His hatred of sin
hath been discovered in other ways: in punishing the devil without
remedy; sentencing man to an expulsion from paradise, though se-
duced by another; in accursing the serpent, an urational creature,
though ut a misguided instrument. dTl1e wholektfnor of; his threat-
enings declare his loathing of sin an the sprin ings o his judg-
ments in the world, and (the horiible expectations of terrified con-
sciences coniirm it. But what are all these testimonies to the
highest evidence that can plossibly be given in the sheathing the
sword of his wrath in the eart of his Son? If a father should
order his son to take a mean garb below his dignity, order him
to be dragged to prison seem to throw off all affection of a father
for the severity of a judge, condemn his son to a horrible death,
be a spectator of his bleergpg condition, Lvithhold his hand from
assuaging his misery rega it rather wit joy t an sorrow give
him a bitter cu to ’drink, and stand by to see him drink ,it off
to the bottom, dregs and all, and flash frowns in his face all the
while; and this not for any fault of his own, but the rebellion
of some subjects he undertook for, and that the offenders might
have a`§ardon sealed by the blood of the son, the suiferer: all
this wo ld evigigncehhishdetegtationh of the rebelgop, apd his alice-
tion to t e re s; is atre to t eircrime, an is ovetot eir
welfare. This did God do. He “delivered Christ up for our of-
fences" (Rom.   _32{; the Father gave him theucup (John xviii.
18); _the Lord b him with pleasure (Isa. lin. 10), and that
for sin. _He_ transferred upon the shoulders of his Son the _rialn
we had merited., that the criminal might be restored to the p ace
he had forfeited. He hates the sin so'as to condemn it forever, and
wrap it up in the curse he had threa.tened_; and loves the sinner,
believing and repentmg; so as to mount him to an expectation of
a happinem exceeding t e Brst estate, both in glory an perpetuilty
Instead of an earthly paradise, lays the foundation of an heave y
mansion, brings fort a weight o glory from a weight of misery,
separates the comfortable liégsht of t e sun from the scorching heat
we had deserved at his han _ Thus hath God’s hatred of sin been
manifested. He is at etemal defiance with sin, yet nearer in alli-
ance with the sinner than he was before the revolt; as if man’s
'miserable fall had endeared him to the J udge. This is the wisdom

