568 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
and prudence of “grace wherein God hath abounded” (Eph. i.9)
a wisdom in twisting the happy restoration of the broken amity
with 'an everlasting curse upon that which made the breach, both
upon sin the cause, and upon Satan the seducer to it. Thus is hatred
and love, in their highest glo , manifested together: hatred to sin,
in the death of Christ, more gan if the torments of hell had been
undergone by the sinner; and love to the sinner, more than if he
had, by an a solute and simple bount , bestowed upon him the pos
session of heaven; because the gift oi? his Son, for such an end, isa
greater token of his boundless affections, than a re~instating man in
paradise. Thus is the wisdom of God seen in redemption, consum-
mg the sin, and recovering the sinner.
6. The wisdom of God is evident in overturning the devil’s em
pire by the nature he had vanquished, and by ways uite contrary
to what that malicious spirit could im `ne. The devth, indeed, read
his own doom in the iirst promise, andagdiind his ruin resolved upon,
by the means of the “Seed of the woman;” but b what seed was
not so easily known to him.° And the methods whereby it was to
be brought about was a mystery ke t secret from the malicious dev-
ils, since it was not discovered to the obedient angels. He might
know, from Isa. liii., that the Redeemer was assured to divide the
spoil with the strong, and rescue a part of the lost creation out of
his hands; and that this was to be effected by making his soul an
offering for sin : but could he imagine which way his soul was to be
made such an offering? He shrewdly suspected Christ, just alter
his inau uration into his oflice by baptism, to be the Son of God:
but did ie ever dream that the Messiah, by dyingias a reputed male-
factor, should be a sacrifice for the expiation of t e sin the devil had
introduced by his subtilty? 'Did he ever imagine a cross should dis-
possess him of' his crown, and that dying groans should wrest the
victory out of his hands? He was conquered by that nature he
had cast headlong into ruin : a woman, by his subtilty, was the oc-
casion of our death ; and a woman, by the conduct of the only wise
God, brings tbrth the Author of our life, and the Conqueror of our
enemies. The flesh of the old Adam had infected us, and the flesh
of the new Adam cures us (1 Cor. xv. 21): “By man came death'
by man also came the resurrection from the dead.” We are killed
by the old Adam, and raised by the new ; as among the Israelites, a
fiery ser ent gave the wound, and a brazen serpent administers the
cure. 'lphe nature that was deceived bruiseth the deceiver, and
raiseth up the foundations of his kingdom. Satan is defeated by
the counsels he took to secure his possession, and loses the victory
by the same means whereby he thought to preserve it. His tempt-
ing the Jews to the sin of crucifying the Son of God, had a contrary
success to his tem ting Adam to eat of the tree. The first death he
brought upon Adam, ruined us, and the death he brought by
his instruments upon the second Adam, restored us. By a tree,
if one may so say, he had triumphed over the world, and by the
fruit of a tree, one hanging upon a tree, he is discharged of hil
‘ And indeed the Heathen oracles, managed by the devils. declared that they wer!
but long to hold their seeptre in the world, but the Hebrew child should vmquishthem.
--

