ON 'ms wrsnon or con. 569
power over us `Heb.   14): “Through death he destroyed Him
that had the wer of death.” And thus the devil ruins his own
kingdom whiliao he thinks to confirm and enlarge it; and is de-
feated byhis own policy, whereby he thought to continue the world
under his chains, and deprive the Creator of the world of his pur-
posed honor. What deeper counsel could he resolve upon for his
own security, than to be instrumental in the death of him, who was
God., the terror of the devil himself; and to bring the Redeemer of
the world to expire with disgrace in the sight of a multitude of
men? Thus did the wisdom of God shine forth in restoring us by
methods seemingly repugnant to the end he aimed at, an above
the suspicion of a subtle devil, whom he intended to baiile. Could
he   ` e that we should be healed by stripes, uickened by death,
purifi by blood, crowned by a cross, advanced; to the highest hon-_
or by the lowest humility, comforted by sorrows, glorified by dis-
grace, absolved by condemnation, and made rich by overty ? That
the sweetest honey should at once spring out of the Belly of a dead
lion, the lion of the tribe of Judah, and out of the bosom of the liv-
ing God? How wonderful is this wisdom of Godl that the Seed of
the woman, born of a mean virgin, brought forth in a stable, spend-
ing his days in afiliction, misery, and poverty, without any pomp
and splendor, passing some time in a. carpenter s shop, with carpen-
ter’s tools (Mark vi. 6), and afterwards exposed to a horrible and
` fu.l death, should, by this way, pull down the gates of
hel subvert the kingdom of the devil, and be the hammer to
break in pieces that power, which he had so long exercised over
the world! Thus became he the author of our life, by being
bound for a while in the chains of death, and arrived to a prin-
cipalitg over the most malicious powers, by being a prisoner for
Us, an the anvil of their rage and fury.
7. The wisdom of God a pears, in giving us this way the sure-
est ground of comfort, and the strongest incentive to obedience,
The rebel is reconciled, and the rebellion shamed; God is pro-
pitiated, and the sinner sanctified, by the same blood. What can
more contribute to our comfort and confidence, than God’s richest
gin to us? What can more endame our love to him, than ou_r
recovery from death by the oblation of his Son to misery and death
for us? It doth as much engage our duty as secure our happiness.
It presents God glorious and gracious, and therefore every way
fit to be trusted m regard of t e interest of his own glory in it,
and in re rd of the eifusions of his grace by it. It renders the
Creature oliliged in the highest manner, and so awakens his indus-
try to the strictest and noblest obedience. Nothing so effectual as a
crucified Christ to wean us from sin, and stifie all motions of des-
pair; a means, 'in regard of the justice signalized in it, to make
man to-hate the sin which had ruined him; and a means, in re-
md of the love expressed to make him delight in that law he
violated (2 Cor. v. 14, 15). The love of Christ, and therefore
the love of God expressed in it, constrains us no longer to live to
ourselves. _
(1.) It is a ground of the highest comfort and coniidence in God.

