570 cnsmrocx ON rar: ATTRIBUTES.
Since he hath given such an evidence of his impartial truth to nil
threatening for the honor of his justice, we need not question but he
ywill be as punctual to his promise for the honor of his mercy. It is
a ground of confidence in God, since he hath redeemed us in such a
way as glorifies the steadiness of his veracity, as well as the severity
of his justice; we may well trust him for the performance of his
promise, since we have ex erience of the execution of his threaten
mg; his merciful truth   as much engage him to accomplish the
one, as his just truth did to inflict the other. The goodness which
shone forth in weaker ra s in the creation, breaks out with stronger
beams in redemption. gud the merc which before the appearance
of Christ was manifested in some smah rivulets, diifuseth itself like
a boundless ocean. That God, _that was our Creator, is our Redeem-
er, the repairer of our breaches, and the restorer of our paths to
dwell in. And the plenteous redem tion from all iniquity, manifest
ed in the incarnation and passion otp the Son of God, is much more
a ground of ho e in the Lord than it was in ast ages, when it co\11d
not be said, “ The Lord hath, but the Lord shall, redeem Israel from
all his iniquities” (Ps. cxxx. 8). It is a full warrant to cast ourselves
into his arms.
(2. An incentive to obedience.
[1. The commands of the gospel require the obedience of the crea-
ture. There is not one precept in the gospel which interferes with any
rule in the law, but strengthens it, and represents it in its true exact-
ness: the heat to scorch us is allayed, but the light to direct us is not
extinguished. Not the least allowance to any sin is granted; not the
least affection to any sin is indulged. The law is tempered by the
ospel, but not nulled and cast out of doors by it: it enacts that none
Ent those that are sanctified, shall be glorified; that there rnustbe
grace here, if we expect glo? hereafter; that we must not presume
to expect an admittance to t e vision of God’s face unless our souls
be clothed with a robe of holiness (Heb.   14). It requires an
obedience to the whole law in our intention and purpose, and an en~
deavor to observe it in our actions; it promotes the honor of God,
and ordains a universal charity among men; it reveals the whole
counsel of God, and furnisheth men with the holiest laws.
(§2.] It presents to us the exactest pattern for our obedience. The
re eeming person is not only a propitiation for the sin, but a pattern
to the sinner (1 Pet. ii. 21). The conscience of man, after the fall of
Adam, approved of the reason of the law, but by the corru tion of
nature man had no strength to perform the law. The possibility of
keeping the law, b human nature, is evidenced by the appearance
and life of the Red7eemer, and an assurance given that it shall be
advanced to such a. state as to be able to observe it: we aspire to it
in this life, and have hopes to attain it in a future; and, while we
are here, the actor of our redemption is the cop for our imitation.
The pattern to imitate is greater than the law to he ruled by. What
a lustre did his virtues cast about the world! How attractive are
his graces! With what high examples for all duties has he fur-
nished us out of the copy of his life!
\ [3.] It presents us with the strongest motives to obedience (Tit ii.

