ON fran wrsbom or con. ‘ 571
11, I2): “ The e of God teaches us to deny ungodlinsss.” What
chains bind us galgtzr and closer than love? Here is love to our na-
ture in his incarnation; love to us, though enemies, in his death and
passion; encouragements to obedience by the proffers of pardon for
former rebellions. By the disobedience of man, God introduceth
his redeeming grace, and engxageth his creature to more ingenuous
and! excellent returns than is innocent state could oblige him to.
In his created state he had goodness to move him, he hath the same
goodness now to oblige him as a creature, and a greater love and
mercy to oblige him as a repaired creature; and t e terror of jus-
tice is taken oil, which night envenom his heart as a criminal.
In his revolted state he h misery to discourage him; in his re-
deemed state he hath love to attract him. Without such a way, black
desipair had seized upon the creatine exposed to a remediless misery,
an God would have had no returns of love from the best of his
earthly works; but if any sparks of ingenuity be left, they will be
excited by the efficacy of this argument. The willingness of God to
receive returning sinners, is manifested in the highest de ee; and
the willingness of a sinner to return to him in duty hath th; strong-
wt envagements. He hath done as much to encourage our obedience,
as to mustrate his glory. We cannot conceive what could be done
greater for the salvation of our souls, and conse uently what could
ave been done, more to enforce our observance. (llVe have a Redeem-
er, as man, to copy it to us, and as God, to ‘perfect us in it. It would
make the heart of any to tremble to woun him that hath provided
such a salve for our sores, and to make grace a warrant for rebellion
-motives capable to form rocks into a tlexibleness. Thus is the wis-
dom of God seen in giving us a ground to the surest confidence, and
furnishing us with incentives to the greatest obedience, by the hor~
rors of wrath, death and sufferings of our Saviour.
8. The wisdom of God is apparent in the condition he hath settled
for the enjoying the fruits of redemption: and this is faith, a wise
and reasonable condition and the concomitants of it-
(1.) In that it is suited to man's la sed state and God’s glory. In-
nocence is not required here; that had been a. condition impossible
in its own nature after the fall. The rejectin of mercy is now only
condemning, where mercy is roposed. Had the condition of per-
fection in works been requires, it had rather been a condemnation
than redem tion. Works are not demanded, whereby the creature
rnight ascrige anything to himself, but a condition, which continues
in man a sense of his apostasy, abates all aspiring ride, and makes
the reward of grace, not of debt; a condition, whereby mercy is
Owned, and the creature emptied; flesh silenced in the dust, and God
Bet upon his throne of grace and authority; the creature brought to
the lowest debasement, and Divine glory raised to the highest pitch.
The creature is brought to acknowledge mercy, and seal to justice;
to own the holiness of God, in the hatred of sin; the justice of God,
In the punishment of sin; and the mercy of God, in the pardoning
of sin: a condition that despoils nature of all its retended excellency;
beats down the glory of man at the foot of Iéod (1 Cor. i. 29, 31),
It subjects the reason and will of man to the wisdom and authority

