572 cnannocx ON rm: srrnrsurss.
of God; it brings the creature to an unreserved submission and en#
tire resignation. God is made the sovereign cause of all; the crea-
ture continued in his emptiness, and reduced to a ter dependence
upon God than by a creation; depending upon   for a constant
influx, for an entire happiness: a condition that renders God glorious
in the creature, and the fallen creature happy in God; God glorious
in his condescension to man, and man happy in his emptiness before
God. Faith is made the condition of man’s recovery, that “ the loiiy
looks of man might be humbled, and the haughtiness of man be
peulled down” (Isa. ii. 11); that every towering imagination might
levelled (2 Cor. x. 5). Man must have all from wit out doors; he
must not live upon himself; but u(pon another’s allowance. He must
stand to the provision of God, an be a. perpetual suitor at his gates.
(22) A con 'tion opposite to that which was the cause of the fall.
We ell from God by an unbelief of the threatenin ; he recovers us
b a belief of the promise; by unbelief we laid Sie foundation of
Glade dishonor; by faith, therefore, God exalts the glory of his ties
grace. We lost ourselves by a desire of self-dependence, and our
ret1u'n is ordered by way of self-emptiness. It is reasonable we
should be restored in a way contrary to that whereliyi we fell; we
sinned by a refusal of cleaving to Go ; l1Z_1S a part of vine wisdom
to restore us in a denial of our our own nghteousnem and strength*
Man having sinned by fpride, the wisdom of God humbles him (saith
one) at the very root o the tree of knowledge, and makes him deny
gi; plwn uérderstanding, and submit to faith, or else, forever to lose
` esire felicit .
(3.) It is a condition suited to the common sentiment and custom
of the world. There is more of belief than reason in the world. All
instructors and masters in sciences and arts, require, first a belief in
their disciples and a resignation of their understandings and wills
to them; And it is the wisdom of God to require that of man, which
his own reason makes him submit to another which is his fellow~
creature. He, therefore, that uarrels with the condition of faith,
must quarrel with all the world, since belief is the beginning of all
knowledge ;° yea, and most of the knowledge in the world, may
rather come under the title of belief] than of knowledge; for what
we think we know this day, we may find from others such &Tg'll~
ments as may stagger our knowledge, and make us doubt of that we
thought ourselves certalin of before: nay, sometimes we change our
opinions ourselves wit out any instructor, an see a. reason to enter
tain an opinion quite contrary to what we had before. And if we
found a general judgment of others to vote against what we think
we know, it would make us give the less credit to ourselves and our
own sentiments. All knowledge in the world is only a belief, de-
pending upon the testimony or ar ` gs of others; for, indeed, ll
may be said of all men, as in Job   9), “We are but of yester-
day, and know nothing.” Since, therefore, belief is so universal a
thing in the world, the wisdom of God uires that of us which
every man must count reasonable, or rendlefifliimself utterly ignorant
of any thing. It is a condition that is common to all religions All
4 Land against Fisher. p. 5. ° Bradwnrd, p. 28. .

