ON 'mn wrsnon or con. 578'
religions are founded u on 'a belief: unless men did believe future
things, they would not hope nor fear. A belief and resignation was
required in all the idolatries in the world; so that God requires
nothing but what a universal custom of the world gives its suifrage
to the reasonableness of: indeed, justifying faith is not suited to the
sentiments of men; but that faith which must precede justifying, a
belief of the doctrine, though not comprehended by reason, is com-
mon to the custom of the world!" It is no less madness not to sub-
mit our reason to faith, than not to regulate oiu' fancies by reason.
(~£.) This condition of faith and repentance is suited to the con-
science of men. The law of nature teaches us, that we are bound to
believe every revelation from God, when it is made known to us:
and not only to ament to it as true, but embrace it as good. This
nature dictates, that we are as much obliged to believe God, because
of his truth, as to love him, because of his goodness. Every man’s
reason tells him, he cannot obey a prece t, nor depend upon a pro~
mise, unless he believes both the one and) the other. No man’s con-
science but will inform him, upon hearing the revelation of God
concerning his excellent contrivance of redemption, and the way to
enjoy, it, that it is very reasonable he should strilp off all aH'ections to
sin, 'e down in sorrow, and bewail what he hat done arniss against
so tender a God. Can you expect that any man that promises you
a great honor or a. rich donative, should demand less of you than to
trust his word, bear an affection to him, and return him kindness?
Can any less be expected by a prince than obedience from a pardon-
ed subject, and a redeemed captive? If you have injured any man
in his body, estate, reputation, would you not count it a reasonable
condition for _the partaking of his clemency and forgiveness, to ex~
pres a heart? sorrow for it, and a resolution not to fall into the like
crime again Such are the conditions of the gospel, suited to the
consciences of men.
(5.) The wisdom of God appears, in that this condition was only
likelv to attain the end. There are bit two common heads appointed
by God,-Adam and Christ: b one we are made a living soul, by
the other a quickening spirit: lily the one we are made sinners, by
the other we are made righteous. Adam fell as a head, and all his
members, his whole issue and posterity, fell with him, because they
proceeded from him by natural generation. But since the second
Adam cannot be our head by natural generation, there must be some
other way of engrafting us in him, and uniting usto him as our
Head, which must be moral and spiritual; this cannot rationally be
conceived to be b any other way than what is suitable to a reason-
able creature, and? therefore, must be by an act of the will, consent
and acceptance, and owning the terms settled for an admission to
that union. And this is that we properly call faith, and, therefore,
called a. receiving of him (John i. 12).
[L] Now this condition of enjoying the fruits of redemption could
not be a bare knowledge; for that is but only an act of the under-
standing, and doth not in itself include the act of the will, and so
would have united only one faculty to him, not the whole soul: but
‘ Janeway, p. 88.

