onvrnn wrsnou or son. 575
it. would blind us, instead of comforting us: so great a work as this
must have several diglestions. God first reveals of what seed the
Redeeming Person s ould be, “ the Seed of the woman” (Gen.  
15); then of what nation (Gen. xxvi. 4); then of what tribe (Gen.
xhx. 123,--of the tribe of Judah; then of what family fthe family
of Davi ; then what works he wasto do, what sufferin to undergo.
The first predictions of our Saviour were obscure. Addm could not
well see t e redemption in the promise for the punishment of death
which succeeded in the threatening; the promise exercised his faith,
and the obscurity and bodily death, his humility. The promise
made to Abraham was clearer than the revelations made before, yet he
could not tell how to reconcile his redemption with his exile. God
supported his faith by the promise, and exercised his humilit by
making him a ilgrim, and kee in him in a per tual dependence
upon him in all) his motions. Tlie declarations to hieoses are brighter
than those to Abraham: the delineations of Christ by David, in the
Psalms, more illustrious than the former: and all those exceeded by
the revelations made to the prophet Isaiah, and the other prophets,
according as the age did approach wherein the Redeemer was to
enter into his oiiice. God wrapped up this gospel in a multitude of
types and ceremonies fitted to the infant state of the church (Gal. iv.
3) An infant state is usually affected with sensible things; _yet all
those ceremonies were itted to that great end of the gospel, which
he would bring forth in time to the world. And the wisdom of God
in them would be amazing, if we could understand the analogy be-
tween every ceremon in the law and the thing signilied by it: as it
cannot but aifect a diligent reader to observe that little account of
them we have by the apostle Paul, sprinkled in his epistles, and
more largel ' in that to the Hebrews. As the political aws of the
Jews flowed from the depth of the moral law, so their ceremonial
did from the depth of evangelical counsels, and all of them had a
Special relation to the honor of God, and the debasing the creature.
Though God formed the mass and matter of the world at the first
creation at once, yet his wisdom took six da s time for the disposing
and ndorning it. The more illustrious trutlis of God are not to be
comprehended on a sudden by the weakness of men. Christ did not
declare all truths to his disciples in the time of his life, because the
were not able at that present to bear them (John xvi. 12): “ YZ
cannot bear them now; ’ some were reserved for his resurrection,
others for the coming of the Spirit, and the full discovery of all kept
back for another world. This doctrine God iigured out in the law,
oracled by the rophets, and unveiled by Christ and his apostles.
(2.3 The wis<l)om of God appeared in using all proper means to
render the belief of it easy.
[1.] The most minute things that were to be transacted were pre-
dicted in the ancient foregoing age, long before the coming of the
Redeemer. The vinegar and gall offered to him upon the cross, the
parting his garments, the not breaking of his bones, the piercing
of his hands and feet, the betraying of him, the slighting of him
by the multitude, all were exactly painted and represented in variety
Of figures. There was light enough to good men not to mistake

