576 cnsnnocx oN 'mn A'1‘l‘RIBU'1'ES.
him, and yet not so plain as to hinder bad men from being service
able to the counsels of God in the crucifying of him when he came.
[2.] The translation of the Old Testament from the private lan-
guage of the Jews, into the most public langu e of the world;
that translation which we call Septua `nt, from Haeirew into Greek,
some years before the coming of Cilrist, that tongue being most
difused at that time, by reason of the Macedonian empire, raised by
Alexander, and the university of Athens, to which other nations
resorted for learning and education. This was a pre aration for the
sons of Japhet to “dwell in the tents of Shem] gy this was the
entertainment of the ospel facilitated; when they compared the
prophesies of the Old 'éestament with the declarations of the New,
and found things so long predicted before they were transacted in
the public view.
[3.] By ordering concurrent testimonies, as to matter of tact, that
the matter of fact was not deniable. That there was such a person
as Christ, that his miracles were stu endous, that his doctrine did
not incline to sedition, that he aifected) not worldly applause, that he
did suffer at Jerusalem, was acknowledged by all; not a. man among
the greatest enemies of Christians was found that denied the matter
of fact. And this great truth, that Christ is the Messiah and
Redeemer, hath been with universal consent owned by all the pro-
fessors of Christianity throughout the world: whatever bickenngs
there have been among them about some articulargdoctrines, they
all centred in that truth of Christ’s being tthe Redeemer. The first
publication of this doctrine was sealed by a thousand miracles, and
so illustrious, that he was an utter stranger to the world that was
ignorant of them.
[AL] In keeping up some principles and opinions in the world to
facilitate the belief of this, or ren er men inexcusable for rejecting
of it. The incarnation of the son of God could not be so strange
to the world, if we consider the general belief of the appearances!
of their gods among them; that the Epicureans and others, that
denied any such Zppearances, were counted atheists.” And Pytha-
goras was esteem to be one, not of the inferior genii and una!
emons, but one of the higher gods, who appeared in a human body,
for the curing and rectifying mortal life ;i and himself tells Abans,
the Scythian, that he was <i'0ef-"'6P°9¢vs, that he “ took the ilesh of
man," that men might not be astonished at him, and in a fright ily
from his instructions. It was not therefore accounted an irrational
thing among them, that God should be incarnate: but, indeed, the
great stumbling-block was a. crucified God. But had they known
the holy and righteous nature of God, the malice of sin, the univer-
sal corruption of human nature, the first threatening, and the neces-
sity of vindicating the honor of the law, and clearing the justice of
God, the notion of his crucifixion would not have appeared so in-
credible, since they believed the possibility of an incarnation.
Another principle was that universal one of sacrifices for cxpia-
tion, and rendering God propitious to man, and was practised among
I 'E1rr¢rivsmL. \ Dionys. Halicar, Antiq. l. 2, p, 128.
i Inmblych. Vit. Pythag., lib. i. cap. 6, p. 44, and lib. ii. o. 19, D. M.

