ON 'rms wrsnou or GOD. 577
all nations. I remember not any wherein this custom did not pre-
vail; for it did even among those people where the Jews, as being no
trading nation, had not an commerce; and also in America, found
out in these latter ages. fi was not a law of nature; no man can
find any such thing written in his own heart, but a tradition from
Adam. Now that among the loss of so many other doctrines that were
handed down from Adam to his immediate posterit , as, in particular,
that of the “ Seed of the woman,” which one would’ think a necessary
appendix to that of sacrincing, this latter should be preserved as a
fragment of an ancient tradition, seems to be an act of ivine wisdom,
to prepare men for the entertainment of the doctrine of the great
Sacrifice for the expiation of the sin of the world. And asthe apos-
tle forms his argument from the Jewish sacrifices, in the e istle to
the Hebrews, for the convincing them of the end of the dieath of
Christ. so did the ancient fathers make use of this practice of the
heathen to convince them of the same doctrine.
[5.] The wisdom of God appeared in the time and circumstances
of the first solemn publication of the gospel b the apostles at Jerusa-
lem. The relation you may read in Acts   ‘ly-12. The Spirit was
given to the apostles on the day of Pentecost; a time wherein there
were multitudes of Jews from all nations, not only near, but remote,
that heard the great things of God spoken in the several langua es
of those nations where their habitations were fixed, and that iy
twelve illiterate men, that two or three hours before knew no lan-
guage but that of their native country. It was the custom of the
ews, that dwelt among other nations, at a distance from Jerusalem
to assemble togpther at Jerusalem at the feast of Pentecost: and God
pitched upon t is season, that there might be witnesses of this mira-
cle in many parts of the world: there were some of every nation un-
der heaven (ver 5); that is, of that known part of the world, so saith
the text. Fourteen several nations are mentioifed; and proselytes
as well as Jews by birth. They are called “devout men, ’ men of
conscience, whose testimony would carry weight with it among their
neighbors at their return, because of their re utation by their reli-
gious carriage. Again, this was not heard and seen by some of them
at one time, and some at another, by some one hour, by others the
next successivelyf but altogether, in a solemn assembly, that the
testimony of so many witnesses at a time, might be more valid, and
the truth of the doctrine ap ear more illustrious and undeniable.
And it must needs be astonislling to them, to hear that person mag-
nified in so miraculous a manner, who had so lately been condemned
by their countrymen as a malefactor. Wisdom consists in the timing
of things. And in this circumstance doth the wisdom of God at pear,
in furnishing the apostles with the Spirit at such a time, and bring-
ing forth such a miracle, as the gift of tongues, on a sudden, that
every nation might hear in their own language the wonder of re-
demption, and as Witnesses at their returns into their own countries,
report it to others; that the credit they had, in their several places,
mlght facilitate the belief and entertainment of the gospel, when the
apostles, or others, should arrive to those several charges and 'lio-
" Fuuclieur. in lvel pp. 294, 295 ' = ~
VUL. L*37

