_ ° ON 'mn wrsnou or son. 579
say, reasonably be imagined to be without a supernatural assistance,
an heavenly and efiicacious working: whereas, had God taken a
course agreeable to the prudence of man, and used those that had
been furnished with learning, tipped with eloquence, and armed
with human authority, the doctrines would have been thought to
have been of a human invention, and to be some subtle contrivance
for some unworthy and ambitious end: the nothingness and weak-
neu of the instruments manifest them to be conducted by a Divine
power, and declare the doctrine itself to be from heaven. When we
see such feeble instruments proclaiming a doctrine repugnant to iiesh
and blood, sounding forth a crucified Christ to be believed in, and
trusted on, and declaiming against the religion and worship under
which the Roman empire had long Hourished; exhorting them to
the contempt of the world, preparation for afiiictions, denying them-
mlves, and their own honors, b the hopes of an unseen reward,
things so repugnant to flesh and blood; and these instruments con-
curring in t e same story, with an admirable harmony in all parts,
and sealin this doctrine with their blood; can we upon all this, as-
cribe this doctrine to a human contrivance, or fix any lower author
of it than the wisdom of heaven? It is the wisdom of God that car-
ries on his own designs in methods most suitable to his own greatf
ness, and different from the customs and modes of men, that less of
humanit , and more of divinity might appear.
(4.) The wisdom of God appears in the ways and manner, as well
asin the instruments of its propagation, by ways seemingly con-
trary. You know how God had sent the Jews into captivitv in
Babylon, and though he _struck off their chains, and restored them
to their country, yet many of them had no mind to leave a country
wherein they had been born and bred. The distance from the place
of the original of their ancestors, and their aifection to the country
wherein they were born, might have occasioned their embracing the
idolatrous worship of the place. Afterwards the persecutions of
Antiochus scattered many of the Jews for their security into other
nations; yet a great part, and perhaps the greatest, preserved their
religion, and by that were obliged to come every year to Jerusalem
to offer, and so were present at the eifusion of the S irit on the day
of Pentecost, and were witnesses of the miraculous eéects of it. Had
they not been dispersed by persecution, had they not resided in se-
veral oountries, and been acquainted with their languages, the gospel
had not so easily been diffused into several countries of the world.
The first rsecutions also raised against the church, propagated the
gospel; th); scattering of the disciples enflamed their courage, and
ispelsed the doctrine (Acts viii. 3), according to the rophecy of
Daniel (xii. 42: “Many should run to and fro, and knowledge should
be increased] The iiivhts and hurryings of men should enlarge the
territories of the gospel There was not a tribunal, but the primi-
tive Christians were cited to; not a horrible punishment, but was in-
flicted u on them. Treated they were, as the dregs and oiihls of
mankind: as the common enemies of the world; yet the Hames of
the miaitry-rs brightened the doctrine, and the captivity of its profes-
sors e way for the throne of its empire. The imprisonment of

