580 cmumocx ON THE A'rrmBU'rEs.
the ark was the downfall of Da on. Religion ew stron er by suf
ferings, and Christianity taller any injuries. Vghat can tins be as-
cribed to, but the conduct of a. wisdom superior to that of men and
devils, defeating the methods of human and hellish policy; thereby
making? the “wisdom of this world foolishness with God" (1 Cor
  19
V. 2l‘he I/Tse, 1. Of Information. If wisdom be an excellency of
the Divine nature; then,
1. Chi-ist’s Deity may hence be asserted. Wisdom is the emphat-
ical title of Christ in Scripture (Prov. viii. 12, 13, 31), where wis-
dom is brought in speaking as a distinct erson; ascribing counsel,
and understanding, and the knowledge of? witty inventions to itself
He is called also the power of God, and the wisdom of God (1 Cor.
i. 24). And the ancients generally understood that place (Col. ii. 3)
“ In him are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge,” as an
assertion of the Godhead of Christ, in regard of the iniimteness of
his knowled e; referring wisdom to his knowledge of divine things;
and knowleiige to his understanding of all human things. But the
natural sense of the lace seems to be this, that all wisdom and
knowledge is displayed) by Christ in the gospel; and the words, lv
aunt, refer either to Christ, or the mystery of God s oken of (ver. 2).
But the Deity of Christ, in regard of infinite wisdom, may be de-
duced from his creation of things, and his government of things;
both which are ascribed to him in Scripture. The first ascribed to
him (John i. 3); “All things were made by him ;" and (ver. 27),
“Without him was not an thing made, that was made.” 'The so-
cond (John v. 22): “The hather hath committed all `udgment to
the Son;” and both put together (Col. ii. 16, 17). Nlow since he
hath the government of the world, he hath the erfections necessary
to so great a Work. As the creation of the world, which is ascribed
to him, requires an infinite power, so the government of the World
requires an infinite wisdom. That he hath the knowledge of the
hearts of men, was roved in handling the omniscience of God.
That knowled e would be to little purpose without wisdom to order
the motions ofgmen’s hearts, and conduct all the qualities and ae-
tions of creatures, to such an end as is answerable to a wise govern-
ment; we cannot think so great an employment can be without an
ability necessary for it. The government of men and angels is a
great part of t e glory of God; and if God should entrust the
ggeatest part of his glory in hands un6t for so great a trust, it would
an argument of weakness in God, as it is in men, to itch upon
unfit instruments for particular char es; since God hath there re
committed to him his eatest glory, ie conduct of all things for
the highest end, he hair a wisdom requisite for so great an end, which
can be no less than infinite. If then Christ were a finite person, he
would not be capable of an infinite communication; he could not
be a subject wherein infinite wisdom could be lodged; for the terms
finite and infinite are so distant, that they cannot commence one an-
other; finite can never be changed into ininite, no more than in-
finite can into hnite.
2. Hence we may assert the right and fitness of God for the gov-

