ON THE wrsnom or Gon. ° 58]
ernment of the world, as he is the wisest Being. Among men, those
who are excellent in iudgment, are accounted iittest to preside over,
and give orders to ot ers; the wisest in a city are most capable to
govern a city; or at least, though ignorant men may bear the title,
yet the advice of the soundest and skilfullest heads should prevail
in all public afairsz we see in nature, that the eye guides the body,
and the mind directs the eye. Power and wisdom are the two arms
of authority; wisdom knows the end, and directs the means; ower
executes the means designed for such an end.' The more splendid
and strong those are in any, the more authority results from thence,
for the conduct of others that are of an inferior orb; now God be-
ing infinitely excellent in both, his ability and right to the manage-
ment of the world cannot be suspected; the who e world rs but one
commonwealth, whereof God is the monarch. Did the govemment
of the world depend upon the election of men and angels, where
could they itch, or where would they find rfections capable of so
great a work, but in the Supreme Wisdomlw His wisdom hath al-
ready been apparent in those laws, whereby he formed the world
into acivil society, and the Israelites into a commonwealth. The
one suited to the consciences and reasons of all his subjects, and the
other suited to the genius of that particular nation, drawn out of
the righteousness of the moral law, and applicable to all cases that
might arise among them in their government; so that Moses asserts,
that the wisdom apparent in their laws enacted by God, as their
chief magistrate, would render them famous among other nations, in
regard of their wisdom, as well as their righteousness $]Deut. iv. 6, 7,
9) Also, this perfection doth evidence, t at God dot actually go-
vern the world. It would not be a commendable thing for a man
to make a curious piece of clock-work, and take no care for the or-
derly motion of it. Would God display so much of his skill in
framing the heaven and earth, and none in actual guidance of them
to their particular and universal ends? Did he la the foundation
in order, and fit every stone in the building, make all things in
weight and measure, to let them afterwards run at hap-hazard?
Would he bring forth his power to view in the creation, and let a
more lorious perfection lie idle, when it had so large a field to move
in? Tnfinite wisdom is inconsistent with inactivity. All prudence
doth illustrate itself in untying the hardest knots, and dis osing the
most diiiicult aifairs to a happy and successful issue. All)those va-
rious arts and inventions among men which lend their assisting hand
to one another, and those various employments their several geniuses
lead them to, whereby they support one another’s welfare, are beams
and instincts of Divine wisdom in the government of the world.
He that “made all things in wisdom” (Ps. civ. 24), would not leave
his works to act and move onl according to their own folly, and
idly behold them jumble togetlier, and run counter to that end he
designed them for; we must not fancy Divine wisdom to be desti-
tute of activit .
3. Here we llnay see a ground of God’s patience. The most impo-
tent persons are the most impatient, when unforeseen emergencies
3 Amyr-aut, Moral. Torn. I. pp. 258, 259.

