582 ° CKARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
arise; er at events expected by them, when their ticble prudent:
was not a sufficient match to contest with them, or prevent them
But the wiser any man is, the more he bears with those things which
seem to cross his intentions, because he knows he grwps the whole
affair, and is sure of attainin the end he proposeth to himself; yet,
as a finite wisdom can have but a finite patience, so an infinite wis-
dom possesses an infinite patience. The wise God intends to bring
glory to himself, and good to some of his creatures, out of the greatest
evils that can happen in the world, he beholds no exorbitant afllictions
and monstrous actions, but what he can dispose to a good and glo-
rious end, even to “work together for good to them that love God”
(Rom. viii. 28% and, therefore, doth not presently fall foul upon the
actors, till he ath wrouvht out that temporary g ory to himself and
good to his I-people which he desiggs. ‘he times of ignorance God
winked at, t' l he had brought his n into the world, and manifested
his wisdom in redemption, and when this was done he presseth men
to a “speedy repentance" (Acts xvii. 30); that, as he forbore punish-
ing theu° crimes, in order to the displaging his wisdom in the de-
signed redemption; so when he h e ected it, they must forbear
any longer abusing his patience.
4. Hence ap ears the immutability of God in his decrees. He is
not destitute of) a power and strength to change his own purposes
but his infinite perfection of wisdom is a bar to his laying asi e his
eternal resolves and forming new ones (isa. xlvi. 10); he resolves the
end from the beginnin , and his counse stands; stands immovable,
because it is his counsel It is an impotent counsel, that is subjectto
a daily thwarting itself Inconstant persons are accounted, by men,
destitute of a due measure of prudence. If God change his mind
it is either for the better or the worse; if for the better, he was not
wise in his fbrmer purpose; if for the worse, he is not wise in his
present resol ve. N o alteration can be without a reflection of weakness
upon the former or present determination. God must either cease
to be as wise as he was before, or begin to be wiser than he was before
the change, which to think or imagine is to deny a Deity. If any
man change his resolution, he is apprehensive of a flaw in his former
puépose, and finds an inconvenience in it, which moves him_ to
su a change, which must be either for want of foresi ht in hun-
self, or want of a due consideration of the object of iis coun£
neither of which can be imagined of God without a denial of the
Deity. No, there are no blots and blemishes in his purposes and
promises. Repentance, indeed, is an act of wisdom in the creature,
ut it presupposeth folly in his former actions, \vh1ch is mconsistelli
with infinite perfection. Men are often too rash in promising; and,
therefore, what they promise in haste, they perform at leisure, or not
atall: they consider not before they vow, and make after-in uiries
whether they had best stand to it. The only wise God nedils 110i
any after-game: as he is sovereignly wise, he sees no cause of rs-
versing anything, and wants not expedients fiir his own purpose;
and as he is iniinitely werful, he hath no superior to hinder him
from executingfhis willzo and making his ople enjoy the efiects uf
his wisdom. he had a recollection of thdughts, as man hath, and

