' ON 'mn wrsnon or son. 583
and saw a necessity to mend them, he were not intinitely wise in his
tirst decrees: as in creation he looked back upon the several ieces
of that goodly frame he had erected, and saw them so exact thlat he
did not take up his pencil again to mend any _particle of the first
draught, so his promises are made with such infinite wisdom and
`udgment, that what he writes is irreversible and forever, as the
decrees of the Medes and Persians. All the words of God are eter-
nal because they are the births of righteousness' and judgment (Hos.
ii. 19); “I will betroth thee to me forever, in rivhteousness and
judgment” He is not of a wavering and ilitting discretion: if he'
threatens he wisel considers what he threatens; if he promises, he
gy considers what he promises; and therefore is immutable in
i .
5. Hence it follows that God is a it object for our trust and coni-
dence: for God being infinitely wise, when he promises anything,
he sew everything which may hinder, and everything which may
promote the execution of it, so that he cannot discover anything
afterwards that may move him to take up after-thoughts: he hath
more wisdom than to promise anything hand over head, or anything
which he knows he cannot accomplish. Though God, as true, be
the object of our trust, yet God, as wise, is the foundation of our
trust. We trust him in his romise; the promise was made by mercy,
and it is performed by truth; but wisdom conducts all means to the
accomplishment of it. There are many men, whose honesty we can
confide in, but whose discretion we are diiiident of: but there is no
defect, either of the one 'or the other, which may scare us from a
depending upon God in our concerns. The words of man’s wisdom
the apostle entitles “enticing” (1 Cor. ii. 4), in o position to the
words of God’s wisdom, which are firm, -stable, anti) undeniable de-A
monstrations. As the power of God is an encouragement of trust,
because he is able to effect, so the wisdom of God comes into the
rankofthose attributes which support our faith. To put a confi-
dence in him, we must be persuaded, not only that he is ignorant
of nothing in the world, but that he is wise to manage the whole
coinse of nature, and dispose of all his creatures, for the bringing his
purposes and his promises to their designed perfection.
6. Hence appeals the necessity of a public review of the manage-
ment ofthe world, and of a day of judgment. As a day of judgment
may be inferred from many attributes of God, as his sovereignty,
justice, omniscience, &c., so, among the rest, from this of wisdom.
How much of this perfection will lie unveiled and obscure, if the sins
of men be not brought to view, whereby the ordering the unrighteous
actions of men, by his directing and over-ruling hand of providence,
in subserviency to his own urposes and his people’s good, may ap-
pear in all its glory! Wishout such a pubic review, this part of
wisdom will not be clearly visible; how those actions, which had a
vile foundation in the hearts and designs of men, and were fhrmed
there to   some base lust, ambition, and covetousness, &c. were,
by a secret wisdom presiding over them, conducted to amazing ends.
It is a part of Divine wisdom toright itself; and convince men of the
msonableness of its laws, and the unreasonableness of their contra-

