584 ` cnsmzocx on 'rim A'rrR1BU'rns.
dictions to it. The execution of the sentence is an act of justice but
the conviction of the reasonableness of the sentence is an act of wis-
dom, clearing up the righteousness of the proceeding; and this pne-
cedes, and the other fo lows §Jude 1521, “To convince all that are
ungodly of all their un odly eeds." hat wisdom which contrived
satisfaction, as well as gmt justice which required it, is concerned in
righting the law which was enacted bv it. The wisdom of a sove-
reign Lawgiver is engaged not to see his law vilified and trampled
on, and exposed to the usts and atfronts of men, without being con-
cerned in vindicating the honor of it. It would appear a folly to
enact and ublish it, if there were not a resolution to right and exe
cute it. 'lgie wisdom of God can no more associate iniquity and
happiness together, than the justice of God can separate iniquity from
punishment. It would be defective, if it did always tamcly bear the
1nsolences of offenders, without a time of remark of their crimes, and
a justification of the precept, rebelliously spurned at. He would be
unwise, if he were unjust; unrightcousness hath no better a title in
Scripture than that of folly. It is no part of Wisdom to give birth
to those laws which he will always behold ineifectual, and neither
vindicate his law by a due execution of the nalty, nor right his
own authorit , contemned in the violation of Iheis law, by a just re-
venge: besidyes, what wisdom would it be for the Sovereign Judge
to lodge such a spokesman for himself as conscience in the soul of
man, if it should be alway found speaking, and at length be found
false in all that it speaks? There is, therefore, an apparent prospect
of the day of account, from the consideration of this perfection ot the
Divine nature. i
7. Hence we have a ground for a mighty reverence and venera-
tion of the Divine Majesty. Who can contem late the sparklings
of this perfection in the variety of the works 0? his hands, and the
exact government of all his creatures, without a raised admiration of
the cxcellency of his Being, and a fallin fiat before him, in a poe-
ture of reverence to so eat a Being? éan we behold so great a
mass of matter, digesteginto _severa forms, so exact a harmony and
temperament in all the creatures, the proportions of numbers and
measures, and one creature answering the ends and designs of
another, the distinct beauties of all, the perpetual motion of all
things without checking one another; the variety of the nature of
things, and all acting according to their nature with an admirable
agreement, and all together, like different strings upon an instru-
ment, emitting divers sounds, but all reduced to order in one delight
ful lessonj-I say, can we behold all this without admiring and adoring
the Divine wisdom, which appears in all? And from the considera-
tion of this, let us pass to the consideration of his wisdom in redemp-
tion, in reconciling divided interests, untying hard knots, drawing
one contrary out of another; and we must needs acknowledge that
the wisdom of all the men on earth, and angels in heaven, is worse
than nothing and vanity in corn arison of this vast Ocwn. And as
we have a greater esteem for those that invent some excellent arti-
ficial engines, what reverence ought we to have for him that hath
Stamped an unimitable wisdom upon all his worksl Nature ordm
- *CI

