ON 'ms wrsnox or con. 585
us to give honor to our superiors in knowledge, and connde in their
counsels; but none ought to be reverenced as much as God, since
none equals him in wisdom. '
8. If God be infinitely wise, it shows us the necessii of our ad-
dmm to him, and invocation of his Name. We are su ject to mis-
takes, and oiien overseen ; we are not able rightly to counsel our-
selves. In some cases, all creatures are too short-sighted to up re-
hend them, and too ignorant to give advice ro r for them, and) to
cont.rive remedies for their ease; but with the Edrd there is counsel
(Jer. xxxii. 19), “He is great in counsel, and mighty in working ;"
t in counsel to advise us, mighty in working to assist us. \Ve
Eiediw not how to effect a design, or prevent an expected evil. We
have an infinite Wisdom to go toj that is every way skilful to man-
age any business we desire, to avert amy, evil we fear, to accomplish
anything we commit into his hands. hen we know not what to
resolve, he hath a counsel to “guide us” (Ps. lxxiii. 24). He is not
more powerful to effect what is needful, than wise to direct what is
fitting. All men stand in need of the help of God, as one man
stands in need of the assistance of other men, and will not do any-
thing without advice; and he that takes advice, deserves the title of
a wise man, as well as he that gives advice. But no man needs so
much the advice of another man, as all men need the counsel and asf
sistance of God: neither is any man’s wit and wisdom so far inferior to
the prudence and ability of an angel, as the wisdom of the wisest
man and the most sharp-sighted angel, is inferior to the infinite wis-
dom of God. We see, therefore, t at it is best for us to go to the
fountain, and not content ourselves with the streams; to beg advice
from a wisdom that is infinite and infallible, rather than from that
which is finite and fallible.
Use 2. If wisdom be the perfection of the Divine Majesty, how
prodigious is the contempt o it in the world? In eneral, all sin
strikes at this attribute, and is in one part or other a ciegrading of it:
the tirst sin directed its venom against this. As the devils endeav-
ored to equal their Creator in power, so man endeavored to e ual
him in wisdom: both indeed scorned to be ruled by his order ;%ut
man evidently exalted himself against the wisdom of God, and
aspired to be a sharer with him in his infinite knowledge; would
not let him be the only wise God, but cherished an ambition to be his
partner. Just as if a beam were able to imagine it might be as
right as the sun; or a spark fancy it could be as full fraught with
heat as the whole element of tire. Man would not submit to the in-
finite wisdom of God in the pxrohibition of one single fruit in the
garden, when b the right of is sovereign authority, he might have
granted him only the use of one. All presumptuous sins are of this
nature§ they are, therefore, called reproaches of God (N um. xv. 30),
“ the soul that doth ought presumptuously, reproacheth the Lord.”
All reproaches are either for natural, moral, or intellectual defects.
All reproaches of God must impl either a weakness or unrighteous-
nas in God: if unrighteousness, his holiness is denied; if weakness,
his wisdom is blemished. In general, all sin strikes at this perfec-
tion two ways,

