586 cnannocx ON 'rss ATTRIBUTES.
1. As it defaceth the wise workmanship of God. Every sin is |
deforming and blemishing our own souls, which, as they are the
prime creatures in the lower world, so they have greater characters
of Divine wisdom in the fabric of them: but this image of God is
ruined and broken by sin. Though the spoiling of itbe a scorn of hh
holiness, it is also an aifront to his wisdom ; for though his power mis
the cause of the production of so fair a piece, yet his wisdom was the
guide of his power, and his holiness the pattern whereby he wrought
1t. His power effected it, and his holiness was exempliiied in it;
but his wisdom contrived it. If a man had a curious clock or watch,
which had cost him many years pains and the strength of his skill
to frame it; for another, after e had seen and considered it, to
tram le upon it, and crush it in pieces, would argue a contempt
of tliie artiiicer’s skill. God hath shown infinite art in the crea»
tion of man; but sin unbeautifies man, and ravisheth his excel-
lenc _ It cuts and slasheth the image of God stamped by divine
wisdlom, as though it were an object only of scorn and contempt.
The sinner in every sin acts, as if he intended to put himself in
a better osture, and in a fairer dress, than the wisdom of God
hath ut liim in by creation.
2. ln the slightrng his laws. The laws of God are highly rational;
they are drawn from the depths of the Divine understanding, where-
in there is no unclearness, and no defect. As his understandinv
alpprehends all things in their true reason, so his will enjoins ah
t ings for worthy and wise ends. His laws are contrived by hiswis-
dom for the happiness of man, whose happiness, and the methods to
it, he understands better than men or angels can do. His laws
being the orders of the wisest understanding, every breach of his
law is a. flying in the face of his wisdom. .Al human laws, though
they are enforced by sovereign authority, yet they are, or ought to
be, in the composing of them, founded upon reason, and should be
particular applications of the law of nature to this or that particular
emergency. The laws of God, then, who is summa 1-atzb, are the
birth of t e truest reason; though the reason of every one of them
may not be so clear to us. Every law, though it consists in an act
of the will, yet doth pre-suppose an act of the understandin . The
act of the Divine understanding in framing the law, mustdie sup-
posed to precede the act of his will in commanding the observance
of that law. So ever sin against the law, is not only against the
will of God commanding, but the reason of God contriving, and a
cleaving to our own reason, rather than the understanding or mind
of God: as if God had mistaken in making his law, and we had
more understanding to frame a better, and more conducing to our
hap iness: as if God were not wise enough to govern us, and pre-
scribe what we should do, and what we should avoid; as if he
designed not our welfare but our misfortune. Whereas, the pre-
cepts of God are not tyrannical edicts, or acts of mere will, ut
the fruits of counsel; and, therefore, every ‘breach of them is a
real declamation against his discretion and judgment, and prefer-
ring our own imaginations, or the suggestions of the devil, as our
rule, before the results of Divine counsel. While we acknowledge

