~ ON THE wisnom or con. 587
him wise in our o inion, we speak him foolish by our practice,
when, instead of liieing guided by him, we will guide ourselves.
No man will question, but it is a controlling Divine wisdom, to
make alterations in his precepts; dogmatically, either to add some
of their own, or expunge any of his: and is it not a crime of
the like reflection to alter them practically? When we will ob-
serve one part of the law, and not another part; but pick and
choose where, we please ourselves, as our humors and carnal in-
terest prompt us; it is to chargethat part of the law with folly,
which we refuse to conform unto. ’l‘he more cunning any man is
in sin, the more his sin is against Divine wisdom, as if he thought
to outwit God. He that receives the promises of God, and the
“ wtimony of Christ, sets to his seal, that God is true” SJohn iii. 33).
By the like strength of argument, it will undeniably fo low, that he
that refuseth obedience to his precepts, sets to his seal that God is
foolish. Were they not rational, God would not enjoin them; and
if they are rational, we are enemies to infinite wisdom, by not com-
plying with them. If infinite prudence hath made the law, why is
not every part of it observed; if it were not made with the est
wisdom, why is any part of it observed? If the defacing of his
image be any sin, as being a defaming his wisdom in creation, the
breaking his law is no less a sin, as being a disgracing his wisdom in
his administration. ’Tis u n this account, likely, that the Seri ture
so often counts sinners fools), since it is certainly inexcusable foily to
contradict undeniable and infallible Wisdom; yet this is done in
the least sin: and as he that breaks one tittle of the law, is deserved-
Xaaccouirted guilty of the breach of the whole (James ii. 10), so he
t despiseth the least stamp of wisdom in the minutest part of the
law, is deservedly counted as a contemner of it, in the frame of the
whole statute-book. But, in particular, the wisdom of God is ai?
ironted and invaded.
1. By introducing new rules and modes of worship, different nom
Divine institutions. Is not this a manifest reflection on this erfection
of God, as though he had not been wise enough to provimlie for his
own honor, and model his own service, but stood in need of our di-
rections and the oaprichios of our brains? Some have observed,
that it is a greater sin in worship to do that we should not, than to
omit what we should perform."\ The one seems to be out of weak-
nem, because of the high exactness of the law; and the other out of
impludence, accusing the wisdom of God of imperfection, and con-
tro ing it in its institutions. At best, it seems to be an imputation
of human bashfulness to the Supreme Sovereign; as if he had been
ashamed to prescribe all that was necessary to his own honor, but
had left something to the ingenuity and gratitude of men. Man has,
ever since the foolish conceit of his old ancestor Adam, presumed
he could be as wise as God ; and if he who was created upright en-
tertained such conceits, much more doth man now, under a mass of
corruption, so capable to foment them. This hath been fhe continual
practice of men; not so much to reject what once they had received
uDivine, but add something of their own inventions to it The
l' Strong, of The Will. _

