588 cnannocx ON rar. minmurss.
heathens renounced not the sacrificing of beasts for the expiation of
their offences (which the old world had received b tradition fron:
Adam, and the new world, after the deluge, horn Nlhah). But thev
had blended that tradition with rites of their own, and offered crea-
tures unclean in themselves, and not fit to be offered to an inhnitely
pure Bein ; for the distinction of clean and unclean was as ancient
as Noah (gen. viii. 20), yea, before (Gen. vii. 2). So the Jews did
not discard what they had received from God, as circumcision, the
Passover, and sacrifices; but they would mix a heap of heathenish
rites with the ceremonies of Divine ordination, and practise thing
which he had not commanded, as well as things which he had en-
joined them. And, therefore, it is observable, that when God taxeth
them with sin, he doth not say, the brought in those things which
he had forbidden into his worship; hut those things which he had
not commanded, and had given no order for, to intimate, that they
were not to move a ste without his rule (Jer. vii. 31): “They have
built the high palaces ofp'l‘c;phet, which I commanded them not, neither
came it into my heart;” an (Levit. x. 1); Nadab’s and Abihu’s strange
ire was not commanded; so charging them with impudence and
rashness in adding something of their own, after he had revealed to
them the manner of his service, as if they were as wise as God. So
loth is man to acknowledge the supremacy of Divine imderstanding,
and be sensible of his own ignorance. So after the divulging of the
gospel, the corruptors of religion did not Bing 011; but preserved the
institutions of God, but painted and patche them u with pagan
ceremonies; imposed their own dreams with as much) force asthe
revelations of God. Thus hath the papacy turned the sim licitv of
the gospel into pagan pomp, and religion into olitics; and) revived
the ceremonial law, and raked some limbs ofp it out of the grave,
after the wisdom of God had rung her knell, and honorably interred
her; and sheltered the heathenish superstitious in christian temples,
after the power of the gospel had chased the devils, with all their
trumpery, from their ancient habitations. Whence should this pm-
ceed, but from a partial atheism, and a mean deceit of the Divine
wisdom? Asthou h God had not understanding enough to pre-
scribe the form of his own worship; and not wisdom enough to
support it, without the crutches of uman prudence. Human pru-
dence is too low to parallel Divine wisdom; it is an incompetent
judge of what is tit for an infinite Majesty. It is sufficiently seen
.in the ridiculous and senseless rights among the heathens; and the
cruel and devilish ones fetched from them b the Jews. What work
will human wisdom make with divine worship, when it will resume
to be the director of it, as a mate with the wisdom of God! %Vhence
will it take its measures, but from sense, humor and fancy? as though
what is grateful and comely to a depraved reason, were as beautiful
to an unspotted and Infinite Mind. Do not such tell the world, that
they were of God’s cabinet council, since they will take gppn them
to Judge, as well as God, what is well-pleasing to him? ere will
it have the humility to stop, if it hath the Ipresum tion to add any
one thing to revealed modes of worship Y' ow did) God tax the Is-
raelites with making idols “according to their own understanding”
l
4
i
l
i

