ON mn wrsnoir cr con. 589
os.   2 l imag1n1n` ` their own understandin to be of a finer
%e, and a) rfecter miuld than their Creator’s ;gzsind that they had
fetched morellilght from the chaos of their own brains, than God had
from eternit in his own nature. How sli ht will the excuse be, God
hath not foribidden this, or that, when God shall silence men with the
question, Where, or when did I command this, or that? There was
no addition to be made under the law to the meanest instrument God
had appointed in his service. The sacred perfume was not to have
one ingredient more put into it, than what God had prescribed in
the composition; nor was any man upon pain of death to imitate it;
nor would God endure that sacrifices should be consumed with any
other Ere than that which came down from heaven. So tender is
God of any invasions of his wisdom and authority. In all things
of this nature, whatsoever voluntary humility and respect to God
they may be disguised with, there is a swelling of the iieshly mind
against infinite understanding, which the apostle nauseates (Col. ii.
18). Such mixtures have not been blessed by God: as God never
prospered the mixtures of several kinds of creatures, to form and
multiply a new species, as being a dissatisfaction with his wisdom as
Creator; so he doth not prosper mixtures in worship, as being a con-
gpiracy against his wisdom as a Lawgiver. The destruction of the
ews was judged by some of their doctors to be, for preferring hu-
man traditions before the written word; which they groimd on
(Isaiah xxix. 33) : “Their fear for me was taught by the precepts of
men.” The injunctions of men were the rule of their worship, and
not the prescdrgpts of my law." To conclude, such as make alterations
inreligion, ' erent from the nrst institution, are intolerable busy
bodies, that will not let God alone with his own affairs. Vain man
would be wiser than his Maker, and be dabbling in that which is His
sole rerogative.
2. Iln neglecting means instituted .by God. When men have risings
of heart against God’s ordinances, “they reject the counsel of the
Lord against themselves,” or, in themselves (Luke   30), f/9é|mw`»'.
They disannulled the wisdom of God, the spring of his ordinances.
All neglects are disregards of Divine prescriptions, as impertinent
and unavailable to that end for which they were appointed, as not
being suited to the common dictates of reason; sometimes out of a
voluntary humility, such as Peter’s was, when he denied Christ’s
condescension to wash his feet (John xiii. 8), and thereby judged of
the comeliness of his Master’s intention and action. Such as .contin-
ually negleet the great institution of the Lord’s supper, out of a sense
of unworthiness, are in the same rank with Peter, and do, as well as
he, fall under the blame and reproof of Christ. Men would be saved,
and use the means, but either means of their own a ointment, or
not atall the means of God’s ordering.° They would’ have God’s
wisdom and will condeseend to theirs, and not theirs conformed to
God's; as if our blind jud ents were iittest to make the election
ofthe paths to happiness. Tiilke Naaman, who, when he was ordered
' Vaiain. 'lime Talmud takes notice, that the court of Bethany was wasted three yean
before Jaunlem, because they preferred their own words before the worus of the LAW.
‘ Pont. Hedit. Put III. p. 366.

