590) c11ARNocx ON THE Armmurss.
b the prophet for the clue of his leprosy, to “ wash seven times in
Jiirdan, ’ would be the prophet’s director, and have him touch him
with his hand; as if a patient, sick of a desperate disease, should
prescribe to his skilful physician what remedies he should order for
is cure, and make his own infirm reason, or his gust and palate,
the rule, rather than the physician’s skill. Men’s inquiries are, “ Who
will show us an good?" 'l he rather fasten upon any means than that
which God hatii1ordained.P lille invert the order Divine wisdom hath
established, when we would have God save us in our own way, not
in his. It is the same thing as if we would have God nourish us
without bread, and cure our disease without medicines, and increase
our wealth without our industry, and cherish our souls without his word
and ordinances. It is to demand of him an alteration of his methods,
and a separation of that which he hath by his eternal judgment
Joined together. Therefore for a man to pray to God to save him
when he will not use the means he hat appointed for salvation,
when he slights the word, which is the instrument of salvation, is a
contempt of the wisdom of Divine institutions. Also in omissions
of prayer. When We consult not with God upon emergent occasions,
we trust more to our own wisdom than God’s, and imply that we
stand not in need of his conduct, but have ability to direct ourselves
and accomplish our ends without his guidance. Not seeking God is,
b the prophet, taxed to be a reflection u on this perfection of God
(ga. xxxi. 1, 2): “They look not to the E01 One of Israel, neither
seek the Lord” &c. And the like charge lie brings against them
(Hos. viii. 9): “They are gone up to Assyria, a wild ass alone by
himself, not consultin God.”
3. In censiuin Gods revelations and actions, if they be not ac-
cording to our schemes: when we will not submit to his plain will
without penetrating into the unrevealed reason of it, nor adore his
counsels without controlling them, as if we could correct both law
and gospel, and frame a better method of redemption than that of
God’s contriving. Thus men slighted the wisdom of God in the
gospel, because it did not agree with that ‘philosophical wisdom and
reason they had sucked in by education rom their masters (1 Cor.
i. <21, 22), contrary to their plractice in their superstitious worship,
where the oracles they thoug t divine were entertained with rever-
ence, not with dispute, and though ambiffuous, were not counted
ridiculous by the worshipper. How foolislh is man in this wherein
he would be accounted wisel Adam, in innocence, was unfit to
control the doctrine of God when the eye of his reason was clear;
and much more are we, since the depravation of our natures. The
revelations of God tower above reason in its purity; much more
above reason in its mud and earthiness. The rays of 'vine wisdom
are too bright for our human understandings, much more for our
sinful understandings. It is base to set up reason, a finite principle,
against an innnite wisdom; much baser to set nip a de raved and
purblind reason against an all-seeing and holy wis om. lil we would
ave a reason for all that God speaks, and all that God acts, our
wisdom must become infinite as his, or his wisdom become finite as
P Durant de Tent, pp. 403, 404.

