/
ON rm: wrsnon or con. 59;
ours All the censures of God’s revelations arise from some preju-
dicateopinions, or traditional maxims, that have enthroned them~
selves in our minds, which are made the standard whereby to judge
the thingls of God, and receive or reject them as they agree with, or
dissent om, those principles (Col. ii. 8). Hence it was that the
philosophers, in the primitive times, were the greatest enemies to the
gospel and the contempt of Divine wisdom, in making reason the
suprerne judge of Divine revelation, was the fruitful mother of the
heresics in a ages springing up in the church, and especially of that
Socinianism, that daily insinuates itself into the minds of men. This
is awrong to the wisdom of God. He that censures the words or actions
of another, implies that he is, in his censure, wiser than the person
censured by him. It is as insupportable to determine the trith of
God`s plain dictates by our reason, as it is to measure the suitable-
ness or imsuitableness of his actions by the humor of our will. We
may sooner think to s an the sun, or grasp a star, or see a gnat
swallow a Leviathan, than fully understand the debates of eternity.
To this we may refer too curious inquiries into Divine methods, and
“intruding into those things which are not revealed” (Col. ii. 18).
It is to affect a wisdom equal with God, and an ambition to be of his
cabinet council. We are not content to be creatures, that is, to be
every way below God; below him in wisdom, as well as power.
4. In prescribing God’s method of acting. When we pray for a
thing without a due submission to God’s will; as if we were his
counsellors, yea his tutors, and not his subjects, and God were bound
to follow our humors, and be swayed according to the judgment of
our ignorance; when we would have such a mercy which God thinks
not fit to give, or have it in this method, which God designs to con-
vey thro h another channel. Thus we would have the only wise
God tal-zdliis measures from our passions ; such a controlling of God
was Jonah’s anger about a gourd (chap. iv. 1) : “ It displeased Jonah
exceedingly, and he was ve angry. We would direct Him how
to dispose of us; as thoughlhe, that had infinite wisdom to contrive
and rear the excellent fabric of the world, had not wisdom enough,
without our discretions, to place us in a sphere proper for his own
ends, and the use he intends us in the universe. All the speeches
of men (would I had been in such an office, had such a charge;
would I had such a mercy, in such a. method, or by such instru-
rnents,) are entrenchrnents upon God’s wise disposal of affairs. This
imposing upon God is a hellish disposition, and in hell we find it.
The rich man in hell, that pretends some charity for his brethren on
earth, would direct God a way t.o prevent their min, by sending one
from the dead to school them, as a more effectual means than “ Moses
and the prophets” (Luke xvi. 29, 30). It is a temper also to be found
011 earth; what else was the language of Saul’s saving the Amale~
lines’ cattle against the plain command of God (1 Sam. xv. 15)? As
1fGod in his fury had overshot himself and overlooked his altar, in
depriving it of so eat a booty for its service; as if it were an un-
wise thin in Gofr to lose the prey of so many stately cattle, that
might miie the altar smoke with their entrails, and serve to expiate
the sins of the people; and therefore he would rectify that which he

