592 cmnmocx ON THE srrnmurss.
thought to be an oversight in God, and so m ifies his own pm
dence and discretion above the Divine. We   not let God act as
he thinks fit, but will be directing him, and “ teaching him knowl-
edge” (Job. xxi. 22.) As if Go were a statue, an idol, that had
eyes and saw not, hands, but acted not; and could be turned as an
image may be, to what quarter of the heaven we please oiuselves
The wisdom of God is unbiassed ; he orders nothing but what is tit-
test for his end, and we would have our shallow brains the bias of
God’s acting. And will not God resent such an indignity, as a re-
flection u n his wisdom as well as authority, when we intimate that
we have llidtter heads than he, and that he comes short of us in un-
derstanding ?
5. In murmuring and im atience. One demands a reason, why he
hath this or that cross? Vyhy he hath been deprived of such a com
fort, lost such a vent1u‘e, languisheth under such a sickness, is tor-
mented with such ains, o pressed by tyrannical neighbors, is un~
successful in such designs?) In these, and such like, the wisdom of
God is questioned and defamed. All im atience is a suspicion, if
not a condemnation of the prudence of gods methods, and would
make human feebleness and folly the rule of God’s dealing with his
creatures. This is a presuming to instruct God, and a reprovintg
him for unreasonableness in his proceedings, when his dealings wi
us do not exactly answer our fancies and wishes; as if God, who
made the world in wisdom, wanted skill for the management of his
creatures in it, (Job xl. 2): “Shall he that contends with the Al-
mighty, instruct him? he that reproveth God, let him answer it"
We that are not wise enough to know ourselves, and what is need-
ful for us; resume to have wit enough to guide God in his dealing
with us. The wisdom of God rendered J ob more useful to the worl
by his afilictions, in making him a pattern of patience, than if he
had continued him in a confiuence o all worldly comforts, wherein
he had been beneficial only in communicating his morsels to hh
egordneighbors. All murmuring is a fastening error upon unerring
is om.
6. In pride and haughtiness of spirit. No proud man, butsets
his heart “ as the heart of God” (Ezek. xxviii. 2, 3). The wisdom
of God hath given to men divers offices, set them in divers places;
some have more honorable charges, some meaner. Not to give that
respect their oiiices and laces call for, is to quarrel with the wisdom
of God, and overt1u°n the rank and order wherein he hath placed
things. It is unit we should affront God in the disposal of his crea
tunes, and intimatetohim by our carriage, that he had( one more wisely
in placing another, and that he hath done foolishly in placing this
or that man in such a charge. Sometimes men are unworthy the
place they fill ; they may be set there in judgment to themselves and
others: but the wisdom of God in his managlement of things, is tobe
honored and regarded. It is an infringing t e wisdom of God, when
we have a vain opinion of ourselves, and arc blind to others. When
we think ourselves monarchs, and treat others as worms or-llies in
comparison of us. He who would reduce all things tn his own
honor, perverts the order of the world, and would constitute another

