ON 'mn wrsnou or son. 593
order than what the wisdom of God hath established; and move
them to an end contrary to the intention .of God, and charges God
with want of discretion and skilL
7. Distrust of God’s promise is an impeachment of his wisdom.
A secret reviling of it, as if he had not taken due consideration
before he past his word; or a suspicion of his power, as if he could
not accomplish his word. We trust the physicians skill with our
bodies, an the lawyer’s counsel with our estates; but are loath to
rely upon God for the concerns of our lives. If he be wise to dis~
pose of us, why do we distrust him? If we distrust him, why do
we embrace an opinion of wisdom? Unbelief also is a contradiction
tothe wisdom of Godin the gospel, &c., but that I have already
handled in a discourse of the nature of unbelie£
Use 3. Ot' comfort.. God hath an infinite wisdom, to conduct us
in our affairs, rectify us in our mistakes, and assist us in our straits.
It is an inestimable privilege to have a God in covenant with us; so
wise, to communicate-all good, to prevent all evil; who hath infinite
waystobring to pass his gracious intentions towards us. “How
unseanchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out" (Rom.
xi. 33)l His judgments or decrees are incomprehensibly wise, and
the ways of effecting them areas wise as his resolves effected by
them. We can as little search into his methods of acting, as we can
into his wisdom of resolving; both his 'judgments and ways are un-
searehable. ~
1. Comfort in all straits and aiilictions. There is a wisdom in in-
iiicting them, and a wisdom in removing them. He is wise to suit
his medicines to the humor of our disease, though he doth not to
the humor of our wills: he cannot mistake the nature of our dis-
temper, or the virtue of his own physic. Like a skilful physician,
he sometimes prescribes bitter potions, und sometimes cheering cor-
dials, according to the strength of the malady, and necessit of the
patient, to reduce him to health. As nothing comes from liiim, but
what is for our od, so nothing is acted by him in a rash and temeg
rarious way. ii; wisdom is as infinite as is goodness; and as ex-
actin managing, as his goodness is plentiful in streaming out to us.
He understands our griets, weighs our necessities, and no remedies
are bevond the reach of his contrivance. When our feeble wits are
bewildered in a maze, and at the end of their line for a. rescue, the
remedies unknown to us are not unknown to God. When we know
not how to prevent a danger, the wise God hath a thousand blocks
to lay in the way); -when we know not how to free ourselves from an
oppressive evil, e hath a thousand ways of reliefl He knows how
totime our crosses, and his own blessings. The heart of a wise
God, as well an the heart of a wise man, discerns both time and
judgment (Eccles. viii. 5). There is as much judgment in sending
them, as judgment in removing; them. How comfortable is it to
think, that our distresses, as well as our deliverances, are the fruits
ot infinite wisdom! Nothing is done by him too soon or too slow;
but in the true point of time, with all 1t»S due circumstances, most
conveniently tbr his glory and. our good. - How wise is Godto bring
the glory ot' our salvation out of the depths of a seeming ruin,
vox.. 1.-38

