on 'ma wrsnou or son. 595
est him to be meat to the people in the wilderness.” The spoils of
the Egyptians’ carcasses, cast upon the shore, served the Israelites’
necessities (or were as meat to them); as being a. deliverance the
church might feed upon in all ages, in a wilderness condition, to
maintain their faith, the vital principle of the soul. There is a wis-
dom superior to the subtilties of men, which laughs at their follies,
and “hath them in derision' (Ps.   4). “There is no wisdom or
counsel against the Lord” (Prov. xxi. 30). You never question the
wisdom of an artist to use his file, when he takes it into his hand.
Wicked instruments are Grod’s axes and files; let him alone, he hath
skill enough to manage them: God hath too much affection to de-
stroy his people, and wisdom enough to beautify them by the worst
tools he uses. He can make all things conspire to a perfect harmony
for his own ends, and his people’s good, when the see no way to
escalpe a danger feared, or attain a blessing wanted?
se4. For Exhortation. 1. Meditate on the wisdom of God in
creation and government. How little do we think of God when we
behold his works! Our sense dwells upon the surface of plants and
animals, beholds the variety of their colors, and the progress in
their motion; our reason studies the ualities of them; our spirits
seldom take a flight to the Divine wisdom which framed them. Our
senses engross our minds from God, that we scarce have a thought
flee to bestow upon the Maker of them, but only on the by. 'l‘he
constancy of seeing things that are common stifles our admiration
of God, due u on the sight of them. How seldom do we raise our
souls as far asiheaven, in our views of the order of the world, the
revolutions of the seasons, the nature of the creatures that are com-
mon among us, and the mutual assistance they give to each other!
Since God hath manifested himself in them, to neglect the considera-
tion of them is to neglect the manifestation of God, and the way
whereby he hath transmitted something of his perfections to our un-
derstanding. It renders men inexcusably guilty of not glorifyin
of God (Rom. i. 19, 20). We can never neglect the meditation o§
the creatures, without a blemish cast upon the Creator’s wisdom.
As every river can conduct us to the sea, so every creature points
usto an ocean of infinite wisdom. Not the rninutest of them, but
rich tracts of this may be observed in them, and a due sense of God
result from them. They are exposed to our view, that something
of God may be lodged in our minds; that, as our bodies extract
their quintessence for our nourishment, so our minds may extract a
qnintessence for the Maker’s praise. Though God is principally to
be praised, in and for Christ, yet, as grace doth not rase out the law
of nature, so the operations of grace put not the dictates of nature
to silence, nor suspend the homage due to God u on our inspection
of his works. God hath given full testimonies of) this perfection in
the heavenly bodies, dispersing their light, and distributing their in-
lluences to every part of the world; in framing men into societies,
giving them various dispositions for the preservation of govern-
ments; making some wise for counsel, others martial for action;
changing old em ires, and raising new. \Vhich way soever we cast
our eyes, we shag find frequent occasions to cry out, “ O the depth

