596 crmnnocir ON me ATTRIBUTES.
df the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God” (Rom. xi.
33?l To this purpose, wemust not only look upon the bulk and out-
sic e of his works, but consider from w mat principles they were mised,
in what order disposed, and the exact syinmetry and proportion of
their arts. \Vhcn a man comes into a city or tern le, and only
consi¢l)ers the surface of the buildings, they will amazeliis sensc,lmt
not better his understanding, unless he considers the methods of the
work, and the art whereby it was erected.
(1.) This was an end for which they were created. God did not
make the world for man’s use only, but chiefly for his own glo ;
for inan’s use to enjoy his creatures, and for his own glory torlie
acknowledged in his creatures, that we may consider his art in fram-
ing them, and his skill in disposing them, and not only gaze upon
the glass without considering the image it represents, and acquaint
ing ourselves whose image it is. 'l‘he creatures were not made for
themselves, but for the serv-ice of the Creator, andthe service of
man. Man was not made for himself; but for the service of the
Lord that created him. He is to consider the beauty of the crea-
tion, that he may thereby glorify the Creator. He knows in part
their exeellency ; the creatures themselves do not. If, therefore,
man be idle and unobservant of them, he deprives God of the glory
of his wisdom, which he should have by his creatures. The inferior
creatures themselves cannot observe it. If man regard it not, what
becomes of it? his glory can only be handed to him by man. 'l‘he
other creatures cannot be active instruments of his g ory, because
they know not themselves, and therefore cannot render him an ae-
tive praise. Man is, therefore, bound to praise God for himself and
for all his creatures, because he only knows himself, and the perfec-
tions of the creatures, and the Author both of himself and them.
God created such variety, to make a report of himself to us; we
are t/o receive the report, and to reflect it back to him. To what
purpose did he make so many things, not necessary, for the support
and pleasure of our lives, but that we should behold him in them,
as well as in the other? W'e cannot behold the wisdom of God in
his own essence, and eternal ideas, but by the reflection of it in the
creatures: as we cannot steadily behold the sun with our eye, but
either through a glass, or by reflection of the image of it in the
water. God would have us, meditate on his perfections; he there-
fore ehose the same day wherein he reviewed his work and rested
from it, to be celebrated by manfor the contem lation of him (Gen.
ii. 2, 3), that we should follow his example, andp rejoice, as himself
did, in the frequent reviews of his wisdom and goodness in them.
In vain would the creatures afford matter for this study, if they were
wholly neglected. God offers something to our consideration in
every creature. Shall the beams of God shine round about us, and
strike our eyes, and not affect our minds-7 Shall we be like igno-
rant children, that view the pictures, or int to the letters in s
book, without any sense and meaning? gba/ shall God have the
homa _e due to him from his works, if man hath no care to observe
them? The 148th Psalm is an exhortation to this. The view of
them should often extract from us a wonder nf the like nature of

