ON 'nm wrsnou or son.” 597
that of David’s (Ps. civ. 24): “ O Lord, how wonderful are thy
works, in wisdom hast thou made them all !” The world was not
created to be forgotten, nor man created to be unobservant of it.
(2.) Ifwe observe not the wisdom of God in the views of the
creatures, we do no more than brutes. To look upon the works of
God in the world, is no higher an act than mere animals perform.
The glories of heaven, and beauties of the earth, are visible to the
sense of beasts and birds. A brute beholds the motion of a man, as
it may see the wheels of 'a clock, but understands not the inward
springs of motion; the end for which we move, or the soul that
acts us in our motion; much less that Invisible Power which pre-
sides over the creatures, and conducts their motion. If a man do no
more than this, he goes not a step beyond a brutish nature, and may
very well acknowledge himself with Asaph, a. foolish and ignorant
beast before God (Ps. lxxiii. 22). The world is viewed by beasts,
but the Author of it to be contemplated by man. Since we are in
a higher rank than beasts, we owe a ‘greater debt than beasts; not
only to enjoy the creatures, as they o, but behold God in the crea-
tures, which they cannot do. The contemplation of the reason of
God in his works, is a noble and suitable employment for a rational
crmture: we have not only sense to perceive them, but souls to
mind them. The soul is not to be without its operation : where the
operation of sense ends, the work of the soul ought to begin. We
travel over them by our senses, as brutes; but we must pierce
further by Olll' understandings, as men, and perceive and praise Him
that lies invisible in his visible manufactures. Our senses are given
us as servants to the soul, and our souls bestowed upon us for the
knowledge and raise of their and our common Creator.
(3.) This would be a means to increase our humility. We should
then flag our wings, and vail our sails, and acknowledge our own
wisdom to be as a drop to the ocean, and a shadow to the sun. We
should have mean thoughts of the nothingness of our reason, when
we consider the sublimity of the Divine wisdom. Who can seriously
consider the sparks of infinite skill in the creature, without falling
down at the feet of the Divine Majesty, and acknowledge himself a
dark and foolish creature (Ps. viii. 4, 5)? When the Psalmist con-
sidered the heavens, the moon, and stars, and God’s ordination and
disposal of them, the use that results from it is, “ VVhat is man, that
thou art mindful of him Y" We should no more think to mate him
in prudence, or set up the spark of our reason to vie with the sun.
Our reason would more wi lingly submd to the revelation, when
the characters of Divine wisdom are stamped upon it, when we find
.lis wisdom in creation incomprehensible to us.
(4.) It would hel us in our acknowledgments of God, for his
ess to us. Viphen we behold the wisdom of God in creatures
low us, and how ignorant they are of what they possess, it will
causeus to reflect upon the deeper impressions of wisdom in the
frame of our own bodies and souls, an exeelleney far superior to
theirs; this would make us admire the magnificence of his wisdom
and goodness, sound forth his praise for advancing us in dignity
above other works of his hands, and stamping on us, by infinite art,

