698 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
a nobler image of himself And by such a com arison of ourselves
with the creatures below us, we should be induced to act excellently,
according to the nature of our souls; not brutishly, according to
the nature of the- creatures God hath put under our feet. `
(5.) By the contemplation of the creatures, we may receive some
assistance in clearing our knowledge in the wisdom of redemption.
Though they cannot of themselves inform us of it, yet since God
hath revealed his redeeming grace, they can illustrate some parti-
culars of it to us. Hence the Scripture makes use of the creatures,
to set forth things of a higher orb to us: our Saviour is called a
Sun, a Vine, and a Lion; the Spirit likened to a dove, fire, and
water. The union of Christ and his church, is set forth bythe
marriage union of Adam and Eve. God hath placed in corporeal
things the images of spiritual, and wrapped up in his creating wis-
dom the representations of his redeeming grace: whence some cal'
the creatures, natural t pes of what was to be transacted in a new
formation of the world? and allusions to what God intended in and
by Christ.
(6.) The meditation of God’s wisdom in the creatures is, in art,
a beginning of heaven upon earth. No doubt but there will lie a
perfect opening of the model of Divine wisdom. Heaven is for
clearing what is now obscure, and a full discovering of what seems
at present intricate (Ps. xxxvi. 9.): ‘ In his light shall we see li ht:
all the light in creation, government, and redemption. The wisdom
of God in the new heavens, and the new earth, would be to little
purpose, if that also were not to be regarded by the inhabitants of
them. As the saints are to be restored to the state of Adam, and
higher; so they are to be restored to the employment of Adam, and
higher: but his employment was, to behold God in the creatures.
The world was so soon depraved, that God had but little joy in, and
man but little knowledge of his works. And since the wisdom of
God in creation is so little seen by our ignorance here, would not
God lose much of the glory of it, if the glorified souls should lose
the understanding of it above? \Vhen their darkness shall be
expelled, and their advantages improved; when the eye that Adam
lost shall be fully restored, and with a greater clearness; when the
creature shall be restored to its true end, and reason to its true per-
fection (Rom. viii. 21, 22 ; when the fountains of the depths of
nature and government s all be opened, knowledge shall increase,
and according to the increase of our knowledge, shall the admiration
of Divine wisdom increaselalso. The wisdom of God in creation
was not surely intended to lie wholly unobserved in the greatest
part of' it; but since there was so little time for the full observation
of it, there will be a time wherein the wisdom of God shall enjoy
a resurrection, and be fully contemplated by his understanding and
glorified creature.
Ea-/wrt. 2. Study and admire the wisdom of God in redemption.
'l‘hi= is the duty of' all Christians. We are not called to understand
the great depth of philosophy; we are not called to a, skill in the
intricacies of civil government, or understand all the methods of
physic; but we are called to be Christians, that is, studiers of Divine

