ON 'nm wrsnox or con. i r ~ 599
evanffelical wisdom. There are 'first principles to be learned; biit
not those rincaples to be rested in without a further progress (Heb.
vi. 1): “ 'llhere ore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ,
letus go on to perfection. Duties must be Gpractised, but knowl-
edgeis not to be neglected. The study of ospel mysteries, the
harmony of Divine truths, the sparkling of Divine wisdom, in their
mutual combination to the great ends of God’s glor and man’s
salvation, is an incentive to duty, a spur to worship, and' particularly
to the greatest and highest part of worship, that part which shall
remain in heaven; the admiration and praise of God, and delight
inhim. Ifwe acquaint not ourselves with the impressions of the
glory of Divine wisdom in it, we shall not much regard it as worthy
our observance in regard of that duty. The gospel is a mystery;
and, as a mystery, hath something great and magnificent in it wor-
thy of our daily inspection; we s all ‘rind fresh springs of new
wonders, which we shall be invited to adore with a religious astonish-
ment It will both raise and satisfy our lon `ngs. Who can come
to the depths of “ God manifested in the fieshgil’ How amazing isit,
and unworthy of a slight thought, that the death of the Son of God
should purchase the happy immortalit of a sinful creature, and
the glory of a rebel be wrought by the ignominy of so great a
person! that our Mediator should have a nature whereby to
covenant with his Father, and a nature whereby to be a Surety for
the creature! How admirable is it, that the fallen creature should
receive an advantage by the forfeiture of his happiness! How mys-
terious is it, that the Son of God should bow down to death upon a
erox for the satisfaction of justice ; and rise triumphantly out of the
grave, as a declaration, that justice was contented and satisfied! that
e should be exalted to heaven to intercede for us; and at last re-
turn into the world to receive us, and invest us with a glory for-
ever with himself I Are these things worthy of a careless regard,
orablockish amazement? What understanding can pierce into
the depths of the divine doctrine of the incarnation and birth of
Christ; the indissoluble union of the two natures? What capacity
is able to measure the miracles of that wisdom, found in the whole
draught and scheme of the gospel? Doth it not merit, then, to be
the object of our daily meditation? How comes it to ass, then,
that we are so little curious to concern our thoughts in those won-
ders, that we scarce taste or si of these delicacies? that we busy
ourselves in triiies, and consider what we shall eat, and in what
fashion we shall be dressed; please ourselves with the ingenious-
ag of a lace or feather; admire a moth-eaten manuscript, or some
~\vorn piece of antiquity, and think our time ill-spent in the
oontem latmg and celebrating that wherein God hath busied him-
Belii and) eternity is designed for the perpetual expressions of? How'
inquisitive are the blessed angels! with what vigor do they renew
their daily contemplations of it, and receive a fresh contentment
from it; still learning, and still inquiring (1 Pet. i. `l2)! Tlioir eye
is never off themcrcy-scat; the strive to see the bottom of it, and
employ all the understanding they have to conceive the wonders
of it Shall the angels be ravished with it. and bend themselves

