1
800 ' cnarzsocz on 'ms 'ATTRlB'UTI3.
down to study it, who have but little'interest'in it ih conipar
us, for whom it was both codtrivedand dispensed;-and sh
our pains be greater for this hidden treasure?' ~ Is not that J
the study of a rational creature, that is worthy the study
angelical? There must indeed be pains; it is expressed bv
ging" (Prov.   4). A lazy arm will not sink to the depth f ‘
he neglect of meditating on it is inexcusable, since it hatht
and character of thewisdom of God. The ancient ophets se
into it, when it was folded up in shadows, when this 'sawsoi
fringes of Wisdom’s garment (1 Pet. i. 10); and shall not wi
the sun hath mounted up in our horizon, and 'sensibly scattei
light of the knowled e of this and the other perfections ` oi
As the. Jewish sabbath was appointed to celebrate the perfect
God, discovered inacreation, so is the Christian sabbath, ap]
to meditate on, and bless God, for the discovery of his perfect
redemption. Let us, therefore, receive it according to its
let it be o1u‘ onl rule to walk by. It isworthy to be-valued
all other counsels; and we should never think- of it withc
doxology of the apostle, “ Toi the onl -wise God be glory tl
Jesus Christ, for ever i” that our specuilations may end in affec
admirations, and thanksgivings, for that which is so full of w¢
What a little prospectshould we have had of God,-and the
ness of man, had not his wisdom and ghoodness revealed these
to us! The gospel is a marvellous lig t, and should not be re
with a stupid ignorance, and pursued with a duller practice.
Emhofrt. 3. Let none of us be proud of, or trust in our own W
Man, by affecting wisdom out of the way of God, got a crack
head,~which hath continued five thousand years and upwart
ever since our own wisdom and “ knowledge hath plervert
(Isa. xlvii. 10). To be guided by this, -is to be under t e com
a blind leader, and followa traitor and enemy t.o God and our
Man’s prudence often proves hurtful to him: he often accomp
his ruin, while he designs his establishment; and finds his fal ,
he thought to settle his fortune: such bade es hath human v
often in its own aiiairs. Those that have liieen heightened
conceit of their own cunning, have at last proved the greatest
God delights to make “ foolish the wisdom of this world” (1
20). Thus God writ foll upon the crafty brains of Ahithoph
simplicit 'upon the subtlye projects of Herod inst our ba
and the devil, the prince of carnal wisdom, wasaiiboled into
thering our redemption by his own projects to hinder it.
policy, against the prescripts of Divine wisdom, never prospe
ike an ignisfatuus, which leads men out of the way of duty
of the way of security, and erverts them into the mire and
ous precipices. When J erogoam would coin a religion to sei
interest of state, he tore up the foundations both of his kingdc
family. The way the Jews took to prevent a fresh invasion
Romans, by the crucifying Christ, brought the judgment mor
upon them (John xi. 48). There is no man ruined here, or d
hereafter, but b his own wisdom and will. (Prov. iii. 5, 7),
fear of the Loi-mi and departure from evil, are inconsistent w

