.~ on 'nm wrsnon or son.” -~ 601
overwéening conceit of 'our own wisdom ;” and leaning to ‘our own
.understandin , is inconsistentwith a trusting in the Lord with all
our hearts. Tt is as much a. deifying ourselves, to trust to our own
wit, as it is a deifying the creature to affect or confide in it, superior
to God or equally with him. The true way to wisdom is to be sen-
sible of our own folly $1BCor. iii. 18), “If any man be wise, let him
become a fool.” He t t distrusts his own guidance, will more se-
curel and successfully follow the counsel of another in whom he
confides. The more water, or any other liquor, is poured out of a
vessel, the more air enters. The more we distrust our own wisdom,
the more capable we are of the conduct of God’s. Had J ehoshaphat
relied u n his own policy, he might have found a defeat when he
met with); deliverance; but he disowned his own skill and strength
in telling God, “ We know not what to do, but our eyes are upon
thee" (2-Chron. xx. 12). Let us, therefore, with Agur, disesteem our
own understanding to esteem Divine. Human prudence is like a
spider’s web, easily blown away, and swept _down by the bcwom of
some unexpected revolution. God, by his infinite wisdom, can cross
the wisdom of man, and make a man’s own prudence hang in his
own light. (Isa. xxix. 14), “The understanding of their prudent
men shall be hid.”
Erlzort. 4. Seek to God for wisdom. The wisdom weihave by na-
ture, is like the weeds the earth brin forth without tillage. Our
wisdom since the fall, 'is the wisdom ofihe serpent, without the inno~
ceney of the dove: it flows from self-love, runs into selflinterest. It
is the wisdom of the flesh, and a. prudence to manage means for the
contending our lusts. Our best wisdom is imperfect, a mere nothing
and vaniay, in comparison of the Divine, as our beings are in com-
parison o his essence. We must go to God for a holy and innocent
wisdom, and 'fill our cisterns from a pure fountain. The wisdom
that was the glory of Solomon, was the donation of the Most High.
(James i. 5), “If any man Want wisdom, let him ask of God, that
giveth to a l men liberally, and u braideth not; and it shall be given
him.” The faculty of understanfling is from_God by nature ; but a
heavenly light to direct the understanding is from God by grace.
Children have an understanding, but stand in need of wise masters
to rectify it, and form judicious notions in it. “There is a spirit in
man, but the inspiration of the Almighty gives him understanding”
(Job xxxii. 8). We must beg of Go , wisdom. The gospel is the
wisdom of God; the concerns of it great and mysterious, not to be
known without a “new understanding" (1 John V. 20). A new un-
derstanding is not to be had but from the Creator of the first. The
Spirit of God isthe “sea.rcher of the deep things of God ;” the re-
vealer of them to us, and the enlightener of our minds to apprehend
them; and, therefore, called a “Spirit of wisdom and revelation”
(Eph. i. 17). Christ is made wisdom to us, as well as righteousness;
not only by imputation, but ei’fusion.q Seek to God, therefore, for
that wisdom which is like the sun, and not that worldly wisdom
which is like a shadow : for that wisdom whose effects are not so out-
wardly glorious, but inwardly sweet, seek it from him, and seek it in
‘I Seaman! Sermon before the Parliament.

