\
5E5E5§EE5E5E5E$5E%:=\\
602 cnnmocic ON run Arrsmurns.
his word, that is, the transcript éf Divine wisdom; “through
cefpts understanding is to be had” (Ps. cxix. 104). As the
o men ap§>ears in their la s, doth the wisdom of Go<
statutes. y this means we e to a heavenly sagacity.
be rejected, what wisdo n there be in us? a dream and
only (Jer. viii): “They h e rejected the word of the L<
what wisdom 18 i th m? Who knows how to order any c
as he ought, or a y e faculty of his soul? Therefore, desi
direction in outw d concerns, in personal, family, in rin
public. He hath not only a wisdom for o1u‘ salvation, gut
outward direction. He doth not only 'de us in the o
leave Satan to manage us in the other. 'ghldse that go with
a witch of Endor, go to hell for craR, and prefer the wisdom
hostile se ent before the holy counsel of a faithful Creator.
want healtli in your body, you advise with a physician; if d
for your estate, you resort to a lawyer; if passage for a voya
address to a ilot; why not much more yourselves, your 4
wise God? is Pliny said, concerning a wise man, “O, S
many Gatos are there in that wise person l” how much more
than men or an els possess, is infinitel centered in the wise
Ezhort. 5. Sigimit to the wisdom otyGrod in all cases. W
was inculcated in the first precept, forbiddin man to eat oft
of the “tree of knowled e of good and evil,”q>ut that he shoi
heed of the swellin of liis mind against the wisdom of God
a wisdom incomprehensible to flesh and blood; we should
in our minds, and resign up ourselves to it in our practice
unreasonable are repinings against God, whereb a creature
rance indicts and judges a Creator’s prudence! '%V'ere God 1
wisdom, and only mighty in power, we might suspect his c
Power without wisdom and goodness is an unruly and ruinor
in the world. But God being infinite in one, as well as th.
we have no reason to be jealous of him, and repine against hi
ods; why should we uarrel with him that we are not as l
as wealthy as others; that we have not presently the mercy 1
Ifhe be wise, we ought to sta his time, and 't h' 1 ` re,‘
“he is a God of judgment” (Pda. xxx. 18). P t to
the time which his discretion hath fixed; it ' f lly to thin
it. By impatience we cannot hasten rel' f - l' nate himi
by debasing him to stand at our bar, dist b lves, lose tl
fort. of our lives, and the sweetness of his mercy. Submis
God we are in no case exempted from, because there is 1
wherein God doth not direct -all the acts of his will b c
Whatsoever is drawn by a straight rule must be right andy st
the rule that is right in itself; is the measure of the strai ht
everything else; whatsoever is wrought in the world by %o<
be wisqdgood; righteous; because God is essentially wisdom
ness, an rig teousness.
(1.) Submit to God, in his revelations. 1. Measure tlicm
reason: the truths of the gospel must be received with a sell
ness and annihilation of the creature. If our reason seems to
t f
itself against revelation, because it Ends no tes imony or i'

