ON me wrsnoir or con. 603
own light., consider how crazy it is in natural and obvious things,
and therefore sure it is not stron enough to enter into the depths
of Divine wisdom: the wisdom of! God in the gospel is too great an
ocean to be contained or laved out by a cockleshell. It were not
infinite, if it were not beyond our finite reach; our reason must as
well stoop to his wisdom, as our wills to his sovereignty. How great
a vanity 18 it for a glow-worm to boast that it is as lull of light as
the sun in the firmamentl for reason to leave its proper sphere, is to
tall into confusion, and thicken its own darkness. \Ve should settle
ourselves in the belief of the Scripture, and confirm ourselves by a
meditation on those many undeniable arguments for its Divine au-
thority,-the fulfilling of its predictions, the antiquit of the writing,
the holiness of the precepts, the heavenliness of tlie doctrine, the
glorious etfects it hath produced, and doth yet produce, diifcrent
from human methods of success; and submit our reason to the voice
of so high a majesty. 2. Not to be too curiously inquisitive into
what is not revealed. There is something hid in whatsoever is re-
vealed. We know the Son of God was be otten from eternity, but
how he was begotten, we are ignorant. ‘Ni know there is a union
of the Divine nature with the human, and that the fulness of the
Godhead dwells in him bodily; but the manner of its inhabitation
we are in a t part ignorant of We know that God hath chosen
mme and refruid others, and that he did it with counsel; but the
reason why he chose this man and not that, we know not; we can
refer it to nothing but God’s sovereign pleasure. It is revealed that
there will be a day wherein God shall _judge the world; but the par-
ticular time is not revealed. We know that God created the world
in time; but why he did not create the world millions of ears before,
we are ignorant of; and our reasons would be bewilderedy in their too
much curiosity. If we ask why he did not create it before, we may
aswell ask why he did create it then? And may not the same
question be asked, if the world had been created millions of years
before it was? That he created it in six days, and not in an instant,
is revealed; but why he did not do it in a moment, since we are sure
he was able to do it, is not revealed. Are the reasons of a wise rnan’s
proceedings hid from us? and shall we resume to dive into the
reason of the proceedings of an only wise (ilod, which he hath judged
not expedient to discover to us? Some sparks of his wisdom he
he hat caused to issue out, to exercise and delight our minds;
others he keeps within the centre of his own breast; we must not go
about to unlock his cabinet. As we cannot reach to the utmost
lines of his wer, so we cannot grasp the intimate reasons of his
wisdom. Vaomust still remember, that which is finite can never be
able to comprehend the_ reasons, motives, and methods of that which
is infinite. It doth not become us to be resty, because God hath not
admitted us into the debates of eternity. \Ve are as little to be
curious at what God hath hid, as to be careless of what God hath
manifltsterl. Too great an inquisitiveness b(‘_\`Oll(l our line, is as much
a provoking arrogance, as a blockish negligence of what is revealed,
is a slighting ingratitude.
(2.) Submit to God in his precepts and methods. Since they are
#I

