\
6045 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'I‘RIBUTES.
the results f infinite wisdom, disputes agpinst them are not 1
what orders are given out by infallible isdom are to be en
'th t d h h h f th be
wi respepn arc; revsgeneghtlpiégodthe reapon o em n
to r in min _ a ave ess re ct from
thhypprinces, whose lawls we cipperiée withoutildgilnghabliz
intot teasono tema ineewe now e s
will 'th t cl' ta ding, our observance of him must
out repining; we t t think to mend oiu' Creator’sl
presume to judge and co demn his righteous statutes. If
rise up in opposition, we must cross its motions, and silence
murings; his will should be an acceptable will to us, becal
Wise will in itself God hath no need to impose upon usaani
us; he hath just and righteous ways' to attain his glory and
tur§As’s good. To deceive Iris, would be to disfllgnor himself,
tra 'ct is own nature. e cannot im ose se in'urious
or unavailable to his subjects’ happindss; not false, becau
truth; not injurious, because of his goodness; not vain, be
his wisdom. Submit, therefore, to him in his precepts, ar
methods too. The honor of his wisdom, and the interest of
piness, call for it. Had Noah disputed with God about but
k and listened to the scoffs oft e senseless world, he had
under the same fate, and lost the honor of a reaeher am
f righteousness. Had not the Israelites been dieir own en
they had been permitted to be their own guides, and return
Egyptgn bonr;ag<;1an1d furnqaices, instead ifpeda lilbegty ang eain
t anaan' a our vlour grat t e ews e
fry the cross, and freeing himself from the power of hi; adi
h ight have had that faith from them which they promis
b t t had been a fagahhto no pgrpolse, &cau;eGwi§h<`;ut iron
ht have believe imto et e no 0 , ut ec
h g been the Saviour of the world. His death, the great
ndi object of faith, had been unaecompllished; they 'grad b;
Go ardonin without a consent to is 'ustice, an sue
couldpnot havegrescued them from falling iiiito eternal mise!
precepgs spd metléocg of lqivine wisdorré mustlbe submipteg
3. u mit to o i crosses an revo utions. n n
doin hannot err in any of his paths, or step the least hair’s
from the way of righteousness: there is the understanding o
vary mcétiolp; an Sys in evg? v;_heel, the whipel that goes
n erus et us. e are e ane more t an reason: i
h t we ask, or what ight foji us, than the mother
ed h`ld did, when she petitioned Christ for her sons':
t, h he came into his temporal kingdom (Matt. xx.
things we desi ight pleasure our fancy or alptpetite, but in
health: one complains for want of ch' ren, but kn
whether they may prove comforts or crosses: another for
health, but knows not whether the health of his body may n
the disease of his soul. We might lose in heavenly -thing
possess in earthly things what we long for. God, in regar
infinite wisdom, is iitter to carve out ondition than we or
our shallow reason and selfllove, w uld wish for those thi

