ON 'rim wrsnou or son. ~ 605
are injurious tobgorg, ui) ouiiselves, tae the world; but God always
chooses what is t or is g ory, an what is best for his creature
either in regard to themselves, or as they stand in relation to hindi,
or to others, as parts of the world. _ We are in _danger from our self-
love, in _no_danger in comyimlying with Gods wisdom: when Rachel
would die, if she had no c ildren, she had children, but death with
one of them (Gen. xxx. 1). Good men may conclude that whatso-
ever is done by God in them, or with them, is best and fittest for
them; because by the covenant which makes over God to them, as
their God, the conduct of his wisdom is assured to them as well as
any other attribute: and, therefore, as God _in every transaction apf
pears as their God, so he appearsas their wise Director, and by this
ansdom he extracts good out of evil, makes the affliction which def
stroys our outward comforts consume our inward defilemcnts; and
the waves which threatened to swallow up the vessel, to cast it upon
the shore: and when he hath occasion to manifest his anger against
histieople, his wisdom directs his wrath. In jud ent he hath “ a
tod Z' ~” dh that k'§m h 'h
tllierfruit 0? t`11£"7f`st0I§"1ia‘§i“ 0f"2ti“eug O`¥°Its§`a3‘}i;a_ex¥"i3§T .TZ
in the answers of prayer he doth give oftentimes “ above what we
ask or think” (Eph. iii. 20), so in outward concerns he doth above
what we can expect, or by our short-sightedness, conclude will be
done. Let us, therefore in all thinvs frame our minds to the Divine
Wisdom, and say with ine Psalmisll: iPs. xiva 4)= “The Lord shall
choose our inheritance and condition for us.” y
Ea:hort.'6. Censure not God indany of his ways. Can we under-
stand the full scope of Divine wis om in creation which is perfected
before our eyes? Can we, by a rational knowlddge, walk over the
whole surface of the earth, and wade through the sea? Can we un-
derstand the nature of the heavens? Are all, or most or the thou-
ssndth part of the particles of Divine skill, known by us, yea, or any
of them thoroughly known? How can we, then understand his
iieiper methods in ghingvs thittarg but gf yesterday, ,that we have not
a time to view es oul not e too quick, or too rash in
our judgments of him: the best thattwe attain to, is_but feeble dom
Jectures at the designs of God. As there is something hid in what-
soever is revealed in his word, so there is something inaccessible to
usm his works, as well asm his nature and Maiiesty. In our Sa~
v1our’s act in washing his disci les’ feet, he chec ed Peter’s contra-
diction (Jéhn xiii. 7): “What li) do, thou knowest not now, but thou
shalt know hereafter.” God were not infinitely wise if the reason
of all his acts were obvious to our shallowness. He is no profound
statesman, whose inward intention can be sounded by vulégfr heads
at the ‘first act he starts ui his d8S1T6d method. The wise od is, m
this like wise men, that have not reasts like glasses of crystal, to
discover all that they intend. There are “ secrets of wisdom above
our reach” (Job xi. 6); ugly, when we see all his acts, we cannot see
all the draughts of his skil in thelm.. An unskilful hearer of admu-
mcal lesson may receive t e melo y with his ear, and understan not
the rarities of the comgosition as it was wrought by the musician’s
mind. Under the Old estameut there was more o Divine power,

