DISCOURSE X.
ON THE POWER OF GOD.
Jos xxvi. 14.--Lol these are parts of his ways: but how little a portion is heard oi
him! but the thunder of his power whocan understand!
BILDA1) had, in the foregoing chapter, entertained Job with a dis-
course of the dominion and power of God, and the purity of his
righteousness, whence he argues an impossibility of the justification
of man in his presence, who is no better than a worm. Job, in this
chapter, acknowledges the greatness of God’s power, and descants
more lar ely upon it than Bildad had done; but doth preface it with
a. kind o§ironical speech, as if he had not acted a friendly part, or
ake little to the purpose, or the matter in hand: the subject of
?z>b‘s discourse was the worldly happiness of the wicked, and the
calamities ofthe godly: and Bildad reads him a lecture, of the ex-
tent of God’s dominion, the number of his armies, and the unspotted
rectitude of his nature, in comparison of which the purest creatures
are foul and crooked. Job, therefore, from ver. 1-4, taxeth him in
a kind of scofiing manner, that he had not touched the point, but
rambled from the subject in hand, and had not a plied a salvc pro-
per to this sore (ver. 2); “ How hast thou helped iiim that is without
power ? how savest thou the arm of him that hath no strength ?” &c. ;
your discourse is so impertinent, that it will neither strenffthcn°a
weak person, nor instruct a simple one." But since Bildad would
take up the argument of God’s Jower, and discourse so short of it,
Job would show that he wanted not his instructions in that kind,
and that he had more distinct conceptions of it than his antagonist
had uttered: and therefore from ver. 5 to the end of the chapter, he
doth magnificently treat of the power of God in several branches.
And (ver. 5) he begins with the lowest. “Dead things are formed
from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof :” You read me
a lecture of the power of God in the heavenly host: indeed it is visi-
ble there, yet ot a. larger extent; and monuments of it are found in
the lower parts. What do you think of those dead things under the
earth and waters, of the corn that dies, and by the moistening influ-
ences of the clouds, springs up again with a numerous progeny and
increase for the nourishment of man? What do you think of those
varieties of metals and minerals conceived in the bowels of the earth ;
those pearls and riches in the depths of the waters, midwifed by this
power of God? Add to these those more prodigious creatures in the
I Munster.

