6 . CHARNOCK ON THE A'1'I‘RI`BUTES.
sea, the inhabitants of the waters, with their vastness and variety,
which are all the births of God’s power; both in their first creation
by his mighty voice, and their propagation by his cherishing provi-
dence. Stop not here, but consider also that his power extends to
hell ; either the graves the repositories of all the crumbled dust that
hath yet been in the world (for so hell is sometimes taken in Scrip-
ture: ver. 6, “Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no
covering.") The several lodgings of deceased men are known to
him: no screen can obscure them from his sight, nor their dissolu-
tion be any bar to his power, when the time is come to compact
those mouldered bodies to entertain   their departed souls, either
for weal or woe. The grave, or he , the place of punishment, is
naked before him; as distinctly discerned b him, as a naked body
in all its lineameuts by us, or a dissected bodlly is in all its parts bya
skilful eye.
Destruction hath no covering; none can 'free himself from the
power of his hand. Every person in the bowels of hell; every PGP'
son unished there is known to him, and feels the power of his
wra& From the lower parts of the world he 'ascends to the con-
sideration of the power of God in the creation of heaven and earth;
“ He stretches out the north over the empty places” (ver. 7). The
north, or the north pole, over the air, which, bv the Greeks, was
called void or empty, because of the tenuity and thinness of that
element; and he mentions here the north, or north pole, for the
whole heaven, because it is more known and apparent than the
southern pole. “And hangs the earth u n nothing :” the maxy
and weighty earth hangs like a thick gloliz) in the midst of a thin
air, that there is as much air on the one side of it, as on the other.
The heavens have no prop t.o sustain them in their height, and the
earth hath no basis to support it in its place. The heavens are as if
yolasaw a curtain stretched smooth in the air without any hand_ to
ol it; and the earth is as if you saw a ball hanging in the air mth-
out any solid body to under-prop it, or any line to hinder it from
falling; both standing monuments of the omnipotence of God. He
then takes notice of his daily power in the clouds; “He binds up
the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not rent under them
(ver. 8). He com acts the waters together in clouds, and keeps them
by his power in the air against the force of their natural gravity and
heaviness, till they are ‘rit to flow down upon the earth, and perform
his pleasure in the places for which he designs them. “ The cloud
is not rent under them ;” the thin air is not s lit asunder by the
weight of the waters contained in the cloud above it. He causes
them to distil by drops, and strains them, as it were, through ii
thin lawn, for the refreshment of the earth; and suffers them not
to fall in the whole lump, with a violent torrent, to waste the
industry of man, and bring famine upon the world, by destiny-
ing the fruits of the earth. What a wonder it would be to S60
but one entire drop of water hang itself but one inch above tl1¢
ground, unless it be a bubble which is reserved by the air en-
closed within it! What a wonder wouid it be to see a gallon
of water contained in a. thin cobweb as strongly as in a veswl

