ON rm: rowsn or con. 7
of brassl Greater is the wonder of Divine power in those thin
bottles of heaven, as they are called (Job xxxviii. 37); and therefore
wlled his clouds here, as belng dail instances of his omni otence:
that the air should sustain those rolhng vessels, as it shoulld seem,
weightier than itself; that the force of this mass of waters should
not break so thin a prison, and hasten to its proper lace, which is
below the air: that they should be daily confined against their
natural inclination, and held by so slight a chain ; that there should
he such a gradual and successive falling of them, as if the air were
pierced with holes like a ardener’s wateringkpot, and not fall in one
entire body to drown or french some parts o the earth. These are
hourly miracles of Divine power, as little regarded as clearly visible.
He proceeds (ver. 9), “He holds back the face of his throne, and
spreads the clouds upon it.” The clouds are designed as curtains to
cover the heavens, as well as vessels to water the earth (Ps. cxlvii.
8. As a tapestry curtain between the heavens, the throne of God
lxvi. 1), and the earth his footstool : the heavens are called his
throne, because his power doth most shine forth there, and magnifi-
cently declare the g ory of God; and the clouds are as a screen be-
tween the scorching hcat of the sun, and the tender plants of the
earth, and the weak bodies of men. From hence he descends to the
583, and considers the Divine power apparent in the bounding of it
(ver. 10); “He hath compassed the waters with bounds, till the day
and night come to an end.” This is several times mentioned in
Scripture as a signal mark of Divine strength (Job xxxviii. 8°; Prov.
viii. 27). He hath measured a place for the sea, and struck the lim-
its of it as with a compass, that it might not mount above the sur-
face of the land, and ruin the ends of the earth’s creation; and this,
while day and night have their mutual turns, till he shall make an
and of time by removing the measures of it. The bounds of the
tumultuous sea are, in many places, as weak as the bottles of the
upper waters; the one is contained in thin air, and the other re-
strained by weak sands, in man places, as well as by stubborn rocks
in others; that, though it swehs, foams, roars, and the waves, en-
wuraged and egged on by strong winds, come like mountains against
the shore; the overflow it not, but humble themselves when they
come near to those sands, which are set as their lists and limits, and
retire back to the womb that brought them forth, as if they were
ashamed and repented of their roud invasion: or else it may be
meant of the tides of the sea, and) the stated time God hath set it for its
ebbing and flowing, till night and day come to an end ;° both that
the fluid waters should contain themselves within due bounds, and
keep their perpetually orderly motion, are amazing arguments of
Divine power. He passes on to the consideration of the commo-
trons in the air and earth, raised and stilled by the power af God;
“The illars of heaven tremble, and are astonished at his reproof”
By pillars of heaven are not meant angels, as some think, but either
the air, called the pillars of heaven in reward of place, as it continues
and knits together the parts of the world, as pillars do the upper
and nether parts of a building: as the lowest parts of the earth are
' Coceei in loc.

