‘8 cnaiuvocx ON THE A'1'I‘BIBUTES.
called the foundations of the earth, so the lowest parts of the
heaven may be called the pillars of heaven :¢ or else by that phrase
may be meant mountains, which seem, at a distance, to touch the
sky, as pillars do the top of a structure; and so it may be ken,
according to vulgar capacity, which imagines the heavens web; sus-
tained by the two extreme parts of the earth, as a convex body, or
to be arched by pillars; whence the Scripture, according to common
apprehensions, mentions the ends of the earth, and the utmost parts
of the heavens, though they have properly no end, as being round
The ower of God is seen in those commotions in the air and earth,
by thunders, lightnings, storms, earthquakes, which rack the air,
and make the mountains and hills tremble as servants before a frown-
ing and rebuking master. And as he makes motions in the earth
and air, so is his power seen in their influences upon the sea; “He
judges the sea with his power, and by his understanding he sxnites
through the proud" (ver. 12). At the creation he put the waters
into several channels, and caused the dry land to appear barefaced
for a habitation for man and beasts; or rather, he spllits the sea by
storms, as though he would make the bottom of t e deep visible,
and rakes up the sands to the surface of the waters, and marshals
the waves mto mountains and valleys. After that, “ he smites
through the proud,” that is, humbles the proud waves, and, by
allaying the storm, reduceth them to their former level: the power
of God is visible, as well in rebuking, as in awakening the winds;
he makes them sensible of his voice, and,   to his pleasulr;
exasperates or calms them. The “striking through the proud
here, is not, probably, meant of the destruction of the Egyptian
army, for some guess that Job died that year," or about the time of
the Israelites coming out of Egypt; so that this discoiuse here,
being in the time of his afiliction, could not point at that which was
done after his restoration to his tem(poral prosperity. And now, at
last, he sums up the power of Go , in the chiefest of his works
above, and the greatest wonder of his works below (ver. 13); “By
his Spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath formed the
crooked serpent,” &c. The greater and lesser lights, sun, moon, and
stars, the ornaments and furniture of heaven ; and the whale, apro-
digiofus monument of God’s power, often mentioned in Seri ture to
this urpose, and, in particular, in this book of Job (ch. xii); and
called by the same name of crooked serpent (Isa. xxvii. 1), where it
is applied, by way of metaphor, to the king of Assyria or Egypt, 01'
all oppressors of the church. Various interpretations there are of
this crooked serpent: some understanding that constellation in
heaven which astronomers call the dragon ; some that combination
of weaker stars, which they call the galaxia, which winds about the
heavens: but it is most probable that J ob, drawing near to a con~
clusion of his discourse, joins the two greatest testimonies of God’s
power in the world, the highest heavens, and the lowest leviathani
which is here called a bar serpent; in regard of his strength an
hardness, as mighty men are called bars in Scri ture (Jer. li. 30)'
“ Her bars are broken things." And in regard oi) this power of God
* Coceei. ‘ Drusius in loc. ' As the word signifies in the Hebrev.

