ON 'ma 'POWER or con. ‘D
in the creation of this creature, it is particularly mentioned in the
catalogue of God’s works (Gen. i. 21) ; “ And God created (great
whales;" all the other creatures being put into one sum, an not
particularly expressed. And now. he makes use of this lecture in
the text, “ Lo, these are parts of his ways; but how ‘little a portion
is heard of him 'I but the thunder of his power who can understand?"
This is but a small landsea of some of his works of power; the
outsides and extremities ofp§;; more glorious things are within his
palaces: though those things argue a stupendous power of the Crea-
tor, in his works of creation an providence, yet they are nothin
to what may be declared of his power. And what may be declared?
is nothing to what may be conceived; and what may be conceived,
is nothing to what is above the conceptions of any creature. These
are but little crumbs and fragments of that Infinite Power, which
is, in his nature, like a drop in comparison of the mighty ocean; a
hiss or whisper in comparison of a might voice of thundem' This,
which I have spoken, IS but like a spar; to the fiery region, a few
lines, b the by, a drop of speech.
The fiunder of has power. Some understand it of thunder literally,
for material thunder in the air: “The thunder of his power,” that
is, according to the Hebrew dialect, “ his powerful thunder.” This
is not the sense; the nature of thunder in the air doth not so much
exceed the capacity of human understanding; it is, therefore, rather
tobe understood metaphorically, “the thunder of his wer,” that
is, the greatness and immensity of his power, manifestednin the mag-
nificent miracles of nature, in the consideration whereof men are as-
tonished, as if they had heard an unusual clap of thunder. S0
thunder is used (Job xxxix. 25), “The thunder of the captains ;”
that is, strength and force of the captains of an army : and iyler. 19),
God, s‘peak.i.n¢f to Job of a horse, saith, “ Hast thou clothed `s nec
with t underqf” that is, strength: and thunder being a mark of the
power of God, some of the heathen have called God by the name
of a Thunderer.= As thunder pierceth the lowest places, and alters
the state of things, so doth the power of God penetrate into all things
whatsoever; the thunder of his power, that is, the greatness of his
power; as “the strength of salvation” (Ps. xx. 6), that is, a mighty
salvation.
Who can under-stavwl? Who is able to count all the monuments
Of his power? How doth this little, which I have spoken of, exceed
the caplalcity of our lmderstanding, and is rather the matter of our
astonis ent, than the object of our comprehensive knowledge.
The power of the greatest potentate, or the mightiest creature, is but
of small extent: none but have their limits; it may be understood
how tar they can act, in what sphere their activity is bounded: but
when I have spoken all of Divine power that I can, when you have
thought all that you can think of it, your souls will prompt you to
Y Oecolamp.
' The ancient Guuls worshipped him under the name of Tnranis. The Greeks called
-luplter Bpovraiog, and Thor; whence our Thursday is derived, signitieth Thunderer, a
htle the Germans gave their God. And Toran, in the British language, signifies thun-
der. Vue. Idolo. lib. ii. cap. 33. Camb. Britan. p. 17.

