10 cnmmocx ON 'run srrnmurns.
conceive something more beyond what I have spoken, and what yon
have thought. His power shines in everything, and is beyond every-
thing. There is infinitely more power lodge in his nature, not ex-
pressed to the world. T e understanding of men and angels, cen-
tred in one creatine, would fall short of the perception of the
intiniteness of it. All that can be comprehended of it, are but little
fringes of it, a. small portion. No man ever discoursed, or can, of
Gods power, according to the magnificence of it. No creatine can
conceive it; God himself only comprehends it; God himself is only
able to express it. Man’s power being limited, his line is too short
to measure the incomprehensible omnipotence of God. “ The thun-
der of his ower who can understandl’ that is, none can. The text
is a lofty dhclaraticn of the Divine power, with a particular note of
attention, Lo/ I. In the expressions of it, in the works of creation
and providence, Lo, these are his ways ; ways and works excelllirzg
any created strength, referring to the little summary of them he
made before. II. In the insufficiency of these wa s to measure his
power, But how little a portion is heard of him.   In the incom-
$'ehensibleness of it, The thunder Q/` h1:8P0w€T, who can understand I
octrine. Infinite and incomprehensible power pertains to the nature
of God, and is expressed, in part, in his works; or, though there be
a mighty expression of Divine power in his works, et an incompre-
hensible power pertains to his na.t1u‘e. “The thunder of his power,
who can understand 7”
His power glitters in all his works, as well as his wisdom (Pa
lxii. 11?: “Twice have I heard this, that power belongs unto God.”
In the aw and in the pro hets, say some; but why power twice, and
not mercy, which he speaks of in the following verse? he had heard
of power twice, from the voice of creation, and from the voiceof
government. Mercy was heard in government after man’s fall, not
creation; innocent man was an object of God’s goodnew, not of his
mercy, till he made himself miserable ; power was expressed in both;
or, twice have I heard that power belongs to God, that is, it is a cer-
tain and undoubted truth, that power is essential to the Divine nature.
It is true, mercy is essential, justice is essential; but power more ap-
parently essential, because no acts of mercy, or justice, or wisdom,
can be exercised by him without power; the repetition of a thing
confirms the _certamty of it. Some observe, that God is called Al-
mighty seventy times in Scripture# Though his power be evident
in all his Works, yet he hath a wer beyond the expression of it in
his works, which, as it is the gli-gy of his nature, so it is the comfort
of a believer. To which purpose the apostle expresseth it by an ex-
cellent paraphrasis for the honor of the Divine nature (Eph.   2%
“Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above
that we can ask or think, unto him be glory in the churches.” We
have reason to acknowledge him Mmighmvho hath a power of
acting above our power of understanding. o could have imag-
ined snch a powerful o eration in the propagation of the gospel, and
the conversion of the Cllentiles, which the apostle seems to hint at in
that place? His power is expressed by “horns in his hands” (Hall-
‘ Lesaius, de Perfect. Divin. lib. v. ap. 1.

