ON 'rnm rownn or son. 11.
  4); because all the works of his hands are wrogght with Almighty
strength. Power is also used as a name of G (Mark. xiv. 62):
“The Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power,” that is, at the
right hand of God; God and power are so inseparable, that they
are reciprocated. As his essence is immense, not to be confined in
place; as it is eternal, not to be measured by time; so it is Almighty,
not to be limited in regard of action.
1. It is ingenuously illustrated by some by a. unit ;b all numbers de»
pend upon it; it makes numbers bv addition, multiplies them unexpres-
sibly; when one unit is removed from a number, how vastly doth it
diminish itl It gives Hperfection to all other numbers, it receives per-
fection from none. you add a unit before 100, how doth it mul-
tiply it to 1,1001 If you` set a unit before 20,000,U00, it presently
makes the number swell up to 120,000,000; and so powerful is a
unit, by adding it to numbers, that it will infinitel enlarge them to
such a vastness, that shall transcend the capacity ofv the best arithme-
tician to count them. By such a meditation as this, you may have
some prostpect of the power of that God who is only unity); the be-
ginning o all things, as a unit isithe beginning of all num ers; and
can perform as many things really, as a unit can numerically; that
is, can do as much in the making of creatures, as a unit can do in
the multiplying of numbers. The omnipotence of God was scarce
denied by any heathen that did not deny the being of a God; and
that was Pliny, and that upon weak arguments.
2. Indeed we cannot have a conception of God, if we conceive
him not most powerful, as well as most wise; he is not a God that
cannot do what he will, and perform all his pleasure. If we imag-
ine him restrained in his power, we imagine him limited in his es-
sence; as he hath an infinite knowledge to know what is possible,
he cannot be without an infinite power to do what is possible; as he
hath a. will to resolve what he sees good, so he cannot want a power
to effect what he sees good to decree; as the essence of a creature
cannot be conceived without that activity that belongs to his nature;
as when you conceive fire, you cannot conceive it without a power
of burning and warming; and when you conceive water, you cannot
conceive it without a power of moistening and cleansing: so you
cannot conceive an infinite essence without an infinite power of ac~
tivity; and therefore a heathen could say, “Lf you know God, you
know he can do all things ;” and therefore, saith Austin, “Give me
not only a Christian, but a Jew; not onl a Jew, but a heathen, that
will deny God to be Almighty.” A few, a heathen, may deny
Christ to be omnipotent, but no heathen will den God to be omnip-
otent, and no devil will deny either to be so : god cannot be con-
ceived without some power, for then he must be conceived without
action. Whose, then, are those products and effects of power, which
are visible to us in the world? to whom do the belong? who is the
Father of them? God cannot be conceived witliout a, power suitable
to his nature and essence. If we imagine him to be of an infinite
wence, we must imagine him to be of an infinite power and
strength.
* Fotlxerby, Atheomastic, pp. 306, 807.

