12 CHARNOCK 0N THE»A'1'I‘RIBU'1‘E8.
In particular, I shall show-I. The nature of Godélpower. 11
Reasons tp prove that God must needs be powerfiil. . How bil
power a pears in creation, in government, in redemption. IV. The Ute.
I. W liat this power is; or the nat1u~e of it.
1. Power sometimes signifies authority : and a man is said to be
mi hty and powerful in regard of hisdominion, and t.he righthe
hatgh to command multitudes of other rsons to take his part; but
power taken for strength, and power tain for authority, are distinc»
things, and may be separated from one another. Power mavbe
without authority; as in successful invasions, that have no just foun-
dation. Authority may be without power; as in a just prince, ex=
pelled by an unjust rebellion, the authority resides in him, though
e be overpowered, and is destitute of strength to support and exer-
cise that authority. The power of God is not to be understood of
his authority and dominion, but his strength to act; and the word in
the text properly signifies strength! ‘
2. This power is divided ordinarily into absolute and ordinate.
Absolute, is that power whereby God is able to do that which he
will not do, but is possible to be done; ordinate, is that power
whereby God doth that which he hath decreed to do, that is, which
he hath ordained or appointed to be exercised ;d which are not dis-
tinct powers, but one and the same power. His ordinate power is a
part of his absolute; for if he had not a powerto do every thing that
e could will, he might not have the wer to do everything that he
doth will. The object of his absolldote power is all things posi-
ble; such things that imply not a contradiction, such that are not
repugnant in their own nature to be done, and such as are not con-
trary to the nature and perfections of God to be done. Those things
that are repugnant in their own nature to be done are several, as to
make a thing which is past not to be past. As, for exam le, the
world is created; God could have chose whether he wouldp create
the world, and after it is created he hath wer to dissolve it; but
after it was created, and when it is dissolliied, it will be eternally
true, that the world was created, and that it was dissolved; for it is
impossible, that that which was once true, should ever be false: if it
be true that the world was created, it will forever be true that itwaa
created, and cannot be otherwise. And also, if it be once true that
God hath decreed, it is impossible in its own nature to be true that
God hath not decreed. Some things are repugnant to the nature
and plerfections of God; as it is impossible for his nature to die and
peris ; impossible for him, in regard of truth, to lie and deceive.
ut of this hereafter; only at present to imderstand the object of
God’s absolute powerto be thin possible, that is, ible in nature;
not by any strength in themsegires, or of themseiliifz; for nothing
hath -no strength, and everything is nothin before it comes into
being ;° so God, by his absolute power, migit have prevented the
sin of the fallen angels, and so have preserved them in theirhrst
habitation. He might, by his absolute power, have restrained the
devil from tempting of Eve, or restrained her and Adam from swal
' \n*r1:u Sept. a0e~vo;-. 4 Scaliger, Publ. Exercit. 865, § 8.
° Estius in Sent. lib. i. dist, 48. § 2.

