ON mn rowsa or eon. ' 13
lowing the bait, and joining hands with the temptation. By his ab-
solute power, God might have given the reins to Peter to betray his
Master, as well as to deny him; and employed Judas in the same
glorious and successful service, wherein he emplo ed Paul. By his
absolute power, he might have created the world, millions of years
before he did create it, and can reduce it into its empty nothing this
moment. This the Baptist aiiirms, when he tells us, “That God is
able of these stones (meaning the stones in the wilderness, and not
the people which came out to him out of Judea, which were children
of Abraham) to raise up children to Abraham” (Matt. iii. 9); that is,
there is a possibility of such a thing there is no contradiction in it,
but that God is able to do it if he please. But now the object of his
ordinate power, is all things ordained by him to be done, all things
decreed by him; and because of the Divine ordination of things,
this power is called ordinate; and what is thus ordained by him :he
cannot but do, because of his unchangeableness. Both those powers
are expressed (Matt. xxvi. 53, 54%, “ My Father can send twelve
legions of angels,” there is his abso ute power; “ but how then shall
the Scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be ?” there is his ordi-
nate power. As his power is free from any act of his will, it is called
absolute; as it is joined with an act of his will, it is called ordinate.
His absolute power is necessary, and belongs to his nature; his ordi-
nate power is free, and belongs to his will ;-a ower guided by his
will,-not, as I said before, that they are two distinct powers, both
belonging to his nature, but the latter is the same with the former,
only it is guided by his will and wisdom.
3. It follows, then, that the power of God is that ability and
strength, whereby he can bring to pass whatsoever he please ; what-
soever his intinite wisdom can direct, and whatsoever the infinite
purity of his will can resolve. Power, in the primary notion of it,
doth not signif an act, but an abilit to bring a thing into act; it
is power, as abire to act before it dotli' actually produce a thing: as
God had an ability to create before he did create, he had power bc-
fore he acted that power without. Power notes the rinciple of the
action, and, therefore, is greater than the act itself lgower exercised
and diffused, in bringing forth and nursing in its particular objects
without, is inconceivabl less than that strength which is ininite in
himself, the same with   essence, and is indeed himself : by his
power exercised he doth whatsoever he actually wills; but by the
pow_er in his nature, he is able to do whatsoever he is able to will.
Tne will of creatures may be, and is more extensive than their
power; and their power more contracted and shortened than their
will: but, as the prophet saith, “ His counsel shall stand, and he
will do all his leasure” (Isa. xlvi. 10%) His power is as great as his
will, that is, whatsoever can fall wit 'n the verge of his will, falls
within the compass of his power. Though he will never actually
will this or that, yet supposing he should will it, he is able to per-
form it: so that you must, in your notion of Divine power, enlarge
it further than to think God can only do what he hath resolved to
do; but that he hath as inhnite a capacity of power to act, as he hath
an infinite capacity of will to resolve. Besides, this power is of that
\

