14 cmnnocx ON 'rss Ammums.
nature, that he can do whatsoever he pleases without ditiiculty, with-
out resistance; it cannot be checked, restrained, frustrated! As he
can do all things possible in regard of the ob°ect, hecan do all'things
easily in regar o the manner of acting: wliat in human arlificers
is knowledge, labor, industry, that in God is his will; his will works
without labor; his works stand forth as he wills them. Hands and
arms are ascribed to him for our conce tions, because our power of
acting is distinct from our will; but gods power of acting is not
really distinct from his will; it is suihcient to the existence of :\
thing that God wills it to exist; he can act what he will only by his
will, without any instruments. He needs no matter to work upon,
because -he can make somethin from nothing; all matter owes itself
to his creative power: he neecia no time to work in, for he can make
time when he pleases to begin to work: he needs no copy fo work
by; himself is his own pattern and copy in his works. All created
agents want matter to work upon, instruments to work with, copies
to work by; time to bring either the births of their minds, or the
works of their hands, to perfection: but the power of God needs
none of these things, but is of a vast and incomprehensible nature,
beyond all these. As nothing can be done without the com ass of
it, so itself is without the compass of every created understanding.
4. This ower is of a distinct conception from the wisdom and
will of God? They are not really distinct, but according to our con-
ceptions. We cannot discourse of Divine things, without observing
some proportion of them with human, ascribing unto God the aer-
fections, sifted from the imperfections of our nature. In us tliere
are three orders-of understanding, will, power; and, accordingly,
three acts, counsel, resolution, execution ; which, though they are
distinct in us, are not really distinct in God. In our conceptions, the
apprehension of a thing belongs to the understanding of God; de-
termination, to the will of God; direction, to the wisdom of God;
execution, to the power of God. The knowledge of God regards a
thing as possible, and as it may be done; the wisdom of od re~
gards a t ing as tit, and convenient to be done ; the will of God re-
solves that it shall be done; the power of God is the application of
his will to e&`ect what it hath resolved. Wisdom is a fixing the
being of things, the measures and perfections of their several beings;
power is a conferring those perfections and beings upon them. is
power is his ability to act, and his wisdom is the director of his ac-
tion: his will orders, his wisdom guides, and his power effects. His
will as the s ring, and his power as the worker, are expressed (Ps.
cxv. 3). “ ge hath done whatsoever he pleased. He commanded,
and the were created” (Ps. cxl. 5); and all three expressed (,Eph. i.
113, “l/lho works all things according to the ‘counsel of his own
w' lz" so that the power of God is a perfection, as it were, subor-
dinate to his understanding and will, to execute the results of his
wisdom, and the orders of his will; to his wisdom as directing, be-
cause he works skilfully; to his will as moving and applying, be-
cause he works voluntarily and freely. The exercise of his power
depends upon his will : his will is the supreme cause of _everything
' Ora. Syntag. lib.   ap. 17. p. 611.

