ON THE POWER or con. 15
that stands up in time, and all things receive a bein as he wills
them. His power is but will erpetually working, ang diffusing it-
self in the season his will hath) fixed from eternity; it is his eternal
will in perpetual and successive springs and streams in the creatures;
it is nothingglse but the constant efficacy of his omni tent will.
This must understood of his ordinate power; but   absolute
power is larger than his resolving will: for though the Scripture
tells us, “ He hath done whatsoever he will,” yet it tells us not, that
he hath done whatsoever he could: he can do things that he will
never do. Again, his ower is distinguished from his will in regard
of the exercise of it, which is after the act of his will: his will was
conversant about objects, when his power was not exercised about
them. Cir-atures were the objects of his will from eternity, but they
were not Erom eternity the effects of his power. His purpose to
create was from eternity, but the execution of his purpose was in
time. Now this execution of his will we call his ordinate power:
his wisdom and his will are supposed antecedent to his power, as the
counsel and resolve; as the cause precedes the performance of the
purpose as the effect. Somes distinguish his power from his under-
standing and will, in regard that his understanding and will are
larger t an his absolute power; for God understands sins, and wills
to permit them, but he cannot himself do any evil or unjust action,
nor have a power of doing it. But this is not to distinguish that
Divine power, but im otence; for to be unable to do evil is the per~
fection of power; and) to be able to do thin unjust and evil, is a
weakness, imperfection, and inability. Man ind?-:ed wills many things
that he is not able to perform, and understands many things that he
is not able to effect; he understands much of the creatures, some-
thing of sun, moon, and stars; he can conceive many suns,_many
moons, yet is not able to create the least atom: but there is nothing
that belongs to power but God understands, and is able to effect. To
Slim this up, the will of God is the root of all, the wisdom of God
is the copy of all, and the power of God is the framer of all.
5. The power of God gives activity to all the other perfections
of his nature, and is of a larger extent and eiiicacy, in regard
of its objects, than some perfections of his nature. I put them both
together. `
(l.) It contributes life and activity to all the other perfections of
his nature. How vain would be his eternal counsels, if wer did
not step in to execute them! His mercy would be a feebrle) pity, if
he were destitute of power to relieve; and his justice a.slighted
Scarecrow, without power to punish; his promises an em tysound,
without power to accomplish them. As holiness is the qieauty, so
power is the life of all his attributes in their exercise; and as holi-
ness, so power, is an adjunct belongin to all, a term that may be
given to all. God hath a powerful wisdom to attain his ends with-
out interruption: he hath a powerful mercy to remove our misery ;
a powerful justice to lay all misery upon offenders: he hath a pow-
erful truth to rform his promises; an infinite power to bestow re-
wards, and   penalties. It is to this purpose power is Hrst put
I Gamaclxeus.

