16 cnnmocx ON mn arrnmurss.
'in the two things which the Psalmist had heard (Ps. lxii. 11,12]
“Twice have I heard,” or two things have I heard; Erst power, then
mercy and justice, included in that expression, “Thou renderest to
every man according to his work :” in eve rfection of God he
heard of power. This is the arm, the hangofihe Deity, which all
his other attributes lay hold on, when the would appear in their
glory; this hands them to the world: by this they act, in this they
triumph. Power framed every stage for their appearance in crea-
tion, providence, redemption.
(2.) It is of a larger extent, in regard of its objects, than some
other attributes. Power doth not alway suppose an object, but con-
stitutes an object. It supposeth an object in the act of preservation,
but it makes an object in the act of creation; but mercy supposeth
an object miserable, et doth not make it so. Justice supposeth an
object criminal, but dyoth not constitute it so: mercy supposeth him
miserable, to relieve him; justice supposeth him criminal, to punish
him: but power supposeth not a thing in real existence, but as pos-
sible; or rather, it is from power that any thin hath a possibi ity,
if there be no re ugnancy in the nature of the thing. Again, power
extends further tlian either mercy or justice. Mercy hath articu-
lar objects, which justice shall not at last be willing to unish; and
justice hath particular objects, which mercy at last shalfnot be will-
ing to refresh: but power doth, and alway will, extend to the ob-
jects of both mercy and justice. A creature, as a creature, is
neither the object of mercy nor justice, nor of rewarding goodness:
a creature,-as innocent, is the object of rewarding goodness; a crea-
ture, as miserable, is the object of compassionate mercy; a creature,
as criminal, is the object of revenging justice: but all of them the
objects of wer, in conjunction with those attributes of goodness,
mercy, anclxjustice, to which they belong. All the olpjlects that
mercy, and justice, and truth, and wisdom, exercise emselves
about, hath a possibility and an actual being from this perfection of
Divine power. It is power first frames a creature .in a capaemnf
nature or mercy or justice, though it doth not give an imm ' te
qualification for the exercise of either. Power makes man a ra-
tional creature, and so confers upon him a nature mutable, which
may be miserable by its own fau t, and punishable by God’s justice;
or pitiable by God’s compassion, and relievable 'by God’s mercy:
but it doth not make him sinful, whereby he becomes miserable and
punishable. Again, power runs through all the degrees of the
states of a creature. As a thing is possible, or may be made, it is
the object of absolute power; as it is factibile, or ordered to be
made, it i  the object of ordinate power: as a thing is actually made,
and brought into being, it is the object of preserving power. So
that power doth stretch out its arms to all the works of God, in all
their circumstances, and at all times. When mercy ceaseth to relieve
a creature, when justice ceaseth to punish a creature, power ceaseth
not to preserve a creature. The blessed in heaven, that are out :f
the reach of punishing justice, are forever maintained by power in
that blessed condition: the damned in hell, that are cast out of the

