18 csxmrocx ON 'rum Arrmsurss.
from the nature of them; but the nature of the sun bringing forth
light, and the nature of the fire bringeth forth heat. The power of
acting is the same with the substance of God, though the action
from that power be terminated in the creature. If the power of
God were distinct from his essence, he were then com unded of
substance and power, and would not be the most simpleliiising. As
when the understanding is informed in several parts of knowledge,
it is skilled in the government of cities and countries, it knows this
or that art: it learns mathematics, philosophy; this, or that science.
The understanding hath a power to do this; but this power, where-
by it learns those excellent things, and brings forth excellent births,
is not a thing distinct from the understanding itself; we may rather
call it the understanding powerful, than the power of the under-
standing; and so we may rather say, God powerful, than say, the
ggwer of God; because his power is not distinct from his essence.
om both these, it will follow, that this omnipotence is incommuni~
cable to anfy creature; no creature can inherit it, because it is a con-
tradiction or any creature to have the essence of God. This om-
nipotence is a peculiar right of God, wherein no creature can share
with him. To be omnipotent is to be essentially God. And for a
creature to be omni otent, is for a creature to be its own Creator.
It being therefore tge same with the essence of the Godhead, it can-
not be communicated to the humanity of Christ,-as the Lutherans
say it is, without the communication of the essence of the God-
head ; for then the humanity of Christ would not be humanity, but
Deity. If omnipotence were communicated to the humanity of
Christ, the essence of God were also communicatedto his humanity,
and then eternity would be communicated. His humanity then was
not given him in time; his humanity would be uncompounded, that
is, his body would be no body, his soul no soul. Omnipotence is
essentially in God; it is not distinct from the essence of God, it is
his essence, omnipotent, able to do all things.
7. Hence it fo lows, that this power is infinite (Eph. i. 19);
“ What is the exceeding greatness of his power,” &c. “according to
the working of his mig ty power.” God were not omnipotent., un-
less his power were iniinite; for a finite power is a limited power,
and a hmited power cannot effect everything that is ~ ible.
Nothing can be too diiiicult for the Divine power to effect; lieashath
a fullness of power, an exceeding strength, above all human ca -
cities; it is a “ mighty Eower” (ltph. i. 19), “able to do above all tiizt
we can ask.or think” ( ph. iii. 20) : that which he acts, is above the
power of any creature to act. Infinite power consists in the bring-
mg things forth from nothing. No creature can imitate God in this
prerogative of power. Man 'indeed can carve various forms, and
erect various ieces of art, but from re-existent matter. Ever
artificer hath the matter brought to his hand, he only brings it forth
in a new figure. Chemists separate one thing from another, but
create nothing, but sever those things which were before compacted
and crudled together: but when God speaks a werful word,
nothing begins to be something: things stand forth gem the womb
of nothing, and obey his mighty command, and take what forms he

