ON 'ms Pownn or son. 19
is pleased to give them. The creating one thing, though never so
small and minute, as the least ily, cannot be but by an infinite
power; much less can the producing of such variety we see in the
world. His power is iniinite, in regard it cannot be resisted by
anything that he hath made; nor can it be confined b anything
he can will to make. “ His greatness is unsearchable”(1Zs. cxlv. 3).
It is a greatness, not of quantity, but qruality. The greatness of
his power hath no end: it is a vanity to imzgne any limits can be
aiiixed to it, or that any creature can say, “ `therto it can go, and
no further.” It is above all conception, all inquisition of any
created understanding. No creature ever had, nor ever can have,
that strength of wit and lmderstanding, to conceive the extent of
his wer, and how magnificently he can work.
Eiirit, His essence is minite. As in a finite subject there is a
finite virtue, so in an infinite subject there must be an infinite virtue.
Where the essence is limited, the wer is so :i where the essence is
unlimited, the power knows no Edundsi Among creatmes, the
more excellency of being and form anything hath, the more activity,
vigor, and ower it hath, to work according to its nature. The sun
hath a migllity power to Warm, enlighten, and fructify, above what
the stars have; because it hath a vaster body, more intense degrees
of light, heat, and vigor. Now, if ; you conceive the sun made
much greater than it is, it would proportionabl have greater de-
grees of power to heat and enlighten than it hatli’ now: and were
it possib e to have an infinite heat and light, it would infinitely heat
and enlighten other things; for everything is able to act according
to the measures of its being: therefore, since the essence of God is
unquestionably ininite, his power of acting must be so also. His
power (as was said before) is one and the same with his essence:
and though the knowledge of God extends to more objects than
his power, because he knows all evils of sin, which because of his
holiness he cannot commit, yet it is as infinite as his knowledge,
because it is as much one with his essence, as his knowledge and
wisdom is: for as the wisdom or knowledge of God is nothing but
the essence of God, kmwing, so the power of God is nothing but the
essence of God, able.
The objects of Divine power are innumerable. The objects of
Divine power are not essentially infinite; and therefore we must
not measure the infiniteness of ivine power by an ability to make
an infinite being; because there is an inca acit in any created
thing to be inlinite; for to be a. creatine and) to he infinite; to be
infinite and yet made, is a. contradiction. To be infinite, and to be
God, is one and the same thin _ Nothing can be infinite but God;
nothing but God is infinite. Hut the power of God is infinite, be-
cause it can produce infinite effects, or innumerable things, such as
surpw the arithmetic of a creature; nor yet doth the ininiteness
consist simply in producing innumerable effects; for that a finite
cause can produce. Fire can, by its finite and limited heat, burn
numberlcss combustible things and arcels; and the understanding
of man hath an infinite number of thoughts and acts of intellection,
U) ’\r wationes sequuntur essentiam. (*) Aquin. Part I Qu. 25. Articm

