20 cmiwocz ON mn Arrsrsorss.
and thoughts different from one another. Who can number the
imaginations of his fancy, and thoughts of his mind, the space oi
one month or year? much less of forty or an hundred years; yet all
these thoughts are about things that are in being, or have a founda-
tion in things that are in being. But the infiniteness of God’s power
consists in an ability to roduce infinite effects, formally distinct,
and diverse from one anotlher; such as never had being,  uch as the
mind of man cannot conceive: “Able to do above what wecan
think” (Eph. iii. 20). And whatsoever God hath made,_or is able to
make, he is able to make in an infinite manner, by calling them to
stand forth from nothing. To produce innumerable effects of dis-
tinct natures, and from so distant a term as nothing, is an argument
of infinite power. Now, that the objects of Divine power are in-
numerable, appears, because God can do infinitely more than he
hath done, or will do. Nothing that God hath done can enfeeble
or dull his power; there still resides in him an ability beyond all
the settled contrivances of his understanding and resolves of his
will, which no effects which he hath wrou ht can drain and put to
a stand. As he can raise stones to be children to Abraham (Matt.
  9); so with the same mighty word, whereby he made one World,
he can make infinite numbers of worlds to be the monuments of
his glory. ARer the prophet Jeremiah (ch. xxxii. 17), had spoke of
God s power in creation, e adds, “And there is nothing too ardfor
thee.” For one world that he hath made, he can create millions:
for one star which he hath beautined the heavens with, he could
have (garnished it with a thousand, and multiplied, if he had
please , every one of those into millions, “for he can call things that
are not” (Rom. iv. 17) ; not some things, but all things possible. The
barren womb of nothing can no more resist his power now to educe
a world from it, than it could at Hrst: no doubt, but for one angel
which he hath made, he could make many worlds of angels. He
that made one with so muchease, as by a word, cannot want power
to make many more, till he wants a word. The word that was not
too weak to make one, cannot be too weak to make multitudes. If
from one man he hath, in a way of nature, multiplied so many in all
ages of the world, and covered with them the whole face of the
earth; he could, in a supernatural way, by one word, multipl as
many more. “It is the breath of the Almighty that gives life Gylob.
xxx1ii.4). He can create infinite species an kinds .of creatures
more' than he hath created, more variety of forms: for since there
is no searchingwof his eatness, there is no conceiving the number-
lem possible e ects of Tiis power. The understanding] of man can
conceive numberless things possible to be; more than' ave been or
shall be. And shall we imagine, that a nnite understanding of a
creature hath a greater omnipotency to conceive things ssible,
than God hath to produce things possible? When the unfieorstand-
ing of man is tired in its conceptions, it must still be concluded,
that the power of God extends, not only to what can be conceived,
but innnitely beyond the measures of a finite mculty. “Touching
the Almighty, we cannot find' him out; he is excelent in power
and in ju grnent” (Job xxxvi. 23). For the understanding o man,

