ON THE Pownn or con. 21
in its conceptions of more kind of creatures, is limited to those
creatures which are: it cannot, in its own im `nation, conceive
anything but what hath some foundation in ariidl from something
already in being. It may frame a new kind of creature, made up
ofa lion, a horse, an ox; but all those arts whereof its conception
is made, have distinct beings in the world, though not in that com-
position as his mind mixes and joins them; but no question but
God can create creatures that have no resemblance with an kind
of creatures yet in being. It is certain that if God only lirnows
those things which he hath done, and will do, and not all things
possible to be done by him, his knowledge were finite; so if he
could do no more than what he hath done, his power would be
finite.
(1.) Creatures have a power to act about more objects than they
do. The understanding of man can frame from one rinciple of
truth, many conclusions and inferences more than it dbth. Wrhhy
cannot., then, the power of God frame hom one iirst matter, an i -
nite number of creatures more than have been created? The
Almightiness of God in producing real eifects, is not inferior to the
understanding of man in drawing out real truths. An artificer that
makes a watch, supposing his life and health, can make many more
of a diferent form an motion; and a limner can draw many
draughts, and frame many pictures with a new variety of colors, ac-
cording to the richness of his fancy. Ifthese can do so, that require
a pre-existent matter framed to their hands, God can much more,
who can raise beautiful structiues from nothing. As long as men
have matter, they can diversify the matter, an make new figures
from it; so long as there is nothzié, God can produce out of that
nothing whatsoever he pleases. e see the same in inanimate crea-
tures. A spark of fire hath a vast power in it: it will kindle other
things, increase and enlarge itself; nothing can be exempt from the
active force of it. It will alter, by consuming or refining, whatso-
ever you offer to it. It will reach all, and refuse none; and by the
eiiicacious power of it, a.ll ,those new figures which. we see in metals,
are brought forth; when you have exposed to it a multitude of
things, still add more, it wi l exert the same strength ; yea., the vigor
is increased rather than diminished. The more it catcheth, the more
fiercely and irresistibly it will act; you cannot suppose an end of its
operation, or a decrease of its strength, as long as you can conceive
its duration and continuance: this must be but a weak shadow of
that infinite power which is in God. Take another instance, in the
sun: it hath power every year to produce flowers and plants from
the earth; and is as able to produce them now, as it was at the first
lighting it and rearinfg it in that sphere wherein it moves. And if
there were no kind o flowers and plants now created, the sun hath
a power residing in it, ever since its first creation, to afford the same
warmth to them for the nourishing and bringing them forth. Wliat-
soever you can conceive the sun to be able to o in regard of plants,
that can God do in regard of worlds; produce more worlds than the
sun doth plants every year, without weariness, without languishment.
The sun is able to influence more things than it doth, and produce

