22 cnamrocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
numberless elfects; but it doth not do so much as it is able to do, ,
because it wants matter to work upon. God, therefore, who wants l
no matter, can do much more than he doth; hecan either act by
,secondi causes if there were more, or make more second causes if he
ease .
.P (2.), God is the most free agrent. Every free agent can do more
than he will do. Man beinéa ee creature, can do more than ordi-
,narily he doth will to do. od is most free, as being. the spring of
liberty in other creatures; he acts not by a necessity of nature, as
_the waves of the sea, or the motions of the wind ° and, therefore, is
not determined to tho e things which he hath already called forth
into_the world. If God be infinitely wise in contrivance, he could l
contrive more than he hath, and therefore, can effect more than lie l
hath effected. He doth not act to the extent of his power upon all  
occasions. It is according to his will that he works (Eph. i.). ` It is t
not according to his work that he wills; his work is an evidence of ,
his will, but not the rule of his will. His power is not the rule of  
.his will, but his will is the disposer of his power, according to the l
.light of  infinite wisdom, and other attributes that direct his will;  
and therefore his power is not to be measured by his actual will.  
,No doubt, but he could in a moment have roduced that world which  
he took six days’ time to frame; he could have drowned the old
world at once, without rolonging the time till the revolution of  
forty days; he was not llimited to such a term of time by any weak- i
ness, but by the determination of his own will. God doth not do w
_the hundred thousandth part of what he is able to do, but what is
convenient to do, according to the end which he hath pro osed to i
  Jesus Christ, as man, could have asked le 'ons ofp angels;
and God, as a sovereign, could have sent them (Qatt. xxvi. 53).
God could raise the dead every day if he pleased, but he doth not:
he could heal every diseased person in a moment, but he doth not
.As God can will more than he doth actually will, so he can do more
than he hath actually done; he can do whatsoever he can will; he
can will more worlds, and therefore can create more worlds. If God
hath not ability to do more thanhe will do, he then can do no more
than what he actually hath done; and then itwill follow, that he is
not ai fikeeaoblut a natural and necessary agent, which cannot be sup-
pose o . T
_ Second, This power is infinite in regard of action. As hecan
produce number ess objects above what he hath produced, so he
could produce them more magnihcently than hefhath made them. l
As he never works to the extent of his power in regard of things, so
neither in regard of the manner of acting; for he never acts so but
he could act in a higher and perfecter manner.
(1.) His power is infinite in regpé/rd of the independency of action:
he wants no instrument to act. hen there was nothing but God,
there was no cause of action but God; when there was nothing in
beintilblut God, there could be no instrumental cause of the being of
any ' g. God can perfect his action without dependence on any
thmg ;1 and to be simply independent, is to be simply infinite In
_ | Suarez, VoL I, de Deo. p. 151.

