_ ON THE POWER OF GOD. 23
this respect itis a power incommunicable to any creature, though
you conceive a creatine in higher degrees of perfection than it is. A
creature cannot cease to be dependent, but it must cease to be a crea-
ture; to be a creature and independent, are terms repugnant to one
another.
(2.) But the iniiniteness of Divine power consists in an ability to
give higher degrees of perfection to everything which he hath made.
As his power is in‘dnite extensive, in regard of the multitude of ob-
jects he can bring into beinv, so it is infinite intensive, in regard of
the manner of o ration, and the endowments he can bestow upon
them.'" Some things, indeed, God doth so erfeet, that higher de-
grees of perfection cannot bc imagined to ge added to them." As
the humanity of Christ cannot be united more gloriously than to the
person of the Son of God, a greater degree of erfection cannot be
conferred upon it. Nor can tl1e souls of the blessed have a nobler
object of vision and fruition than God himself; the infinite Being: no
higher than the enjoyment of himself can bc conferred upon a crea-
ture, respectu. termini. This is not want of power; he cannot be
greater, because he is greatest; not better, because he is best ~
nothing can be more than infinite. But as to the things which God
hath made in the world, he could have given them other manner of
being than they have, A human understanding may im rove a
thought or conclusion; strenghen it with more and more, tlirce of
reason; and adorn it with ric er and richer eleganey of lan uage:
Why, then, may not the Divine rovidence roduce a world more
perfect and excellent than this? hle that malges a plain vessel, can
embellish it more, engrave more figures upon it, according to the
capacit of the Subject: and cannot God do so much more with his
worksfv Could not God have made this world of a larger quantity,
and the sun of a greater bulk and pro ortionable strength, to influ-
ence a bigger world? so that this world would have been to another
that God might have made, as a ball or a mount, this sun as a star
to another sun that he might have kindled. He could have made
every star a sun, every spire of grass a star, every grain of dust a
flower, every soul an anfrel. And though the angels be perfect
creatures, and inexpressiblly more glorious than a visible creature,
yet who can imagine God so confined, that he cannot create a more
excellent kind, and endow those which he hath made with excellen-
cy of a higher rank than he invested them with at the 'first moment
of their creation? \Vithout question God might have given the
meaner creatures more excellent endowments, (put them into another
order of nature for their own good and more itfusive usefulness in
the world. What is made use of b ' the prophet (Mal. ii. 15) in an-
other case, may be used in this: “hfet had he a residue of Spirit.”
The capacity of every creature mi ht have been enlarged by God;
for no work of his in the world §ioth equal his power, as nothing
that he hath framed doth e ual his wisdom. The same matter which
lathe matter of the body di a beast, is the matter of a plant and
flower; is the matter of the body of a man; and so was capable of
A higher form and higher perfections, than God hath been pleased
' Bean. Sum. TheoL p. 82. ' I'id. p. 84.
\

