24 cnaauocx ON 'rms arrarsnras.
to bestow upon it. And he had power to bestow that perfection on
one part of matter which he demed to it, and bestowed on another
part. If God cannot make things in a greater perfection, there
must be some limitation of him: he cannot be limited by another,
because nothing is superior to God. If limited b himself, that limi-
tion is not from a want of power, but a want oil, will. He can, by
his own ower, raise stones to be children to Abraham (Matt. iii. 9 ):
he could) alter the nature of the stones, form them into human
bodies, dignify them with rational souls, inspire those souls with such
graces that ma render them the children of Abraham. But for the
more fully understanding the nature of this power, we ma observe,
[1.] That though God can make everything with a higiier degree
of perfection, yet still within the limits of a finite being. No crea-
ture can be made infinite, because no creature can be made God.
No creature can .be so improved as to equal the goodness and per-
fection of God;° yet there is no creature but we may conceive a
possibility of its being made more perfect in that rank of a creature
than it is: as we may imagine a flower or lant to have greater
beauty and richer qua ities imparted to it by givine power, without
rearing it so high as to the dignity of a rational or sensitive creature.
Whatsoever perfections may be added b God to a creature, are still
Hnite perfections; and a multitude of dhite excellences can never
amount 2 the value and honor of infinite: as if you add one number
to anoth as high as you can, as much as a large piece of paper can
contain, you can never make the numbers really infinite, though
they may be infinite in re ard of the inability of any human under-
standing to count them. ilhe finite condition of the creature sufibis
it not to be capable of an infinite perfection. God is so great, so
excellent, that it is his perfection not to have any equal; the defect
is in the creature, which cannot be elevated to such a pitch; as you
can never make a gallon measure to hold the uantit of a butt, or
a butt the quantity of a river, or a river the fuiness oilthe sea.
[2.] Though God hath a power to furnish every creatine with
greater and nobler pcrfections than he hath bestowed upon it, yet
e hath framed all things in the perfectest manner, and most con-
venient to that end for which he intended them. Everything is
endowed with the best nature and quality suitable to God’s end in
creation, though not in the best manner for itselfir In regard of the
universal end, there cannot be a better; for God himself is the end
of all things, who is the Supreme Goodness. Nothing can be better
than God, who could not be God if he were not superlatively best,
or (;>5»t¢°/nus ,° andhe hath ordered all things for the declaration of his
go ness or justice, according to the behaviors of his creatures. Man
oth not consider what strength or wer he can ut forth in the
means he useth to attain such an endif) but the suitableness of them
to his main design, and so its and marshals them to his grand ur-
pose. Had God only created things that are most excellent, he lied
created only angels and men; how, then, would his wisdom have
° Gamach in Aquin. Tom. I. Qu. 25.
I Besté, ez parte fuimtis at modl: but not as park roi. Eshi. in Sultan. lib. i. dl
tin- 44. 2.

