ON 'rua Powsn or con. 25
been conspicuous in other works in the subordination and subser-
viency of them to one another? God therefore determined his power
by his wisdom: and thouglhs his ,absolute power could have made
every creature better, yet ` ordinate power, which in every step
was regulated by his wisdom, made everythin best for his designed
intentions A musician hath a power to wind up a strin on a lute
to a higher and more perfect note in itself, but in wisdom he will not
do it, because the intended melody would be disturbed thereby if it
were not suited to the other strings on the instrument; a discord
would mar and taint the harmony which the lutenist designed. God,
in creation, observed the proportions of nature: he can make, a.
spider as strong as a lion; but accordingito the order of nature which
he hath settle , it is not convenient t at a creature of so small a
compass should be as strong as one of a greater bulk. The absolute
power of God could have prepared a body for Christ as glorious as
that he had after his resurrection; but that had not been agreeable
to the end designed in his humiliation: and, therefore, God acted
most rfectly by his ordinate power, in giving him a. body that
wore £1 livery of our infirmities. God’s power is alway regulated
by his wisdom and will; and though it produceth not what is most
perfect in itself, yet what is most perfect and decent in relation to
the end he fixed. And so in his providence, though he could rack
the whole frame of nature to bring about his ends in a more mirac-
ulous way and astonishment to mortals, yet his power is usually and
ordinarily condned b his will to act in concurrence with the nature
of the creatures, and direct them according to the laws of their being,
to such ends which he aims at in their conduct, without violcncing
their nature.
53] Though God hath an absolute power to make more worlds,
an infinite numbers of other creatures, and to render every creature
a higher mark of his power, yet in regard of his decree to the con-
trary, he cannot do it. He hath a physical power, but after his re-
solve to the contrary, not a moral power: the exercise of his power
is subordinate to his decree, but not the essence of his power. Tue
decree of God takes not away any ower from God, because the
power of God is his own essence, and inca able of change; and is
as great physically and essentially after his decree, as it was before;
only his will hath put in a bar to the demonstration of all that power
which he is able to exercise' As a prince that can raise 100,000
men for an invasion, raises only 20 or 30,000; he here, by his order
limits his power, but doth not divest himself of his authority and
power to raise the whole number of the forces of his dominions if he
pleases: the power of God hath more objects than his decree hath;
ut since it is his perfection to be immutable, and not to change his
decree, he cannot morally put forth his power upon all those objects,
which, as it is essentially 1D him, he hath ability to do. God hath
decreed to save those that believe in Christ, and to judge unbelievers
to everlasting erdition: he cannot morally damn the first, or save
the latter; yetlhe hath not divested himself of his absolute power to
1 Aquin. Part I, Qu, 25, art 6. ' Gamach in Aquin. Tom. I. Qu 25:

