26 crmmrocx oN THE A'1'I‘RIBU’I'ES.
save all or damn all.” Or suppose God hath decreed not to create
more worlds than this we are now in, doth his decree weaken his
strength to create more if he pleased? His not creatin more is not
a want of strength, but a want of will: it is an act of liberty, not an
act of impotency. As when a man solemnly resolves not to walk in
such a way, or come at such a place, his resolution deprives him not
of his natural strength to walk thither, but fortiiies his will against
using his strength in any such motion to that place. The will of
God hath set bounds to the exercise of his power, but doth not in-
frin that absolute power which still resides in his nature: he is
  about with more power than he puts forth (Ps. lxv. 6).
[4.] As the power of God is infinite in regard of his essence, in
regard of the o jects, in regard of action, so, fourthly, in regard of
duration. The apostle calls it “an eternal power" (Rom. i. 20). His
eternal ower is collected and concluded from the things that are
made: they must needs be the products of some Being which con-
tains truly in itself all power, who wrought them without engines,
without instruments; and, therefore, this power must be infinite, and
ssessed of an unalterable virtue of acting. If it be eternal, it must
be) inhnite, and hath neither beginning nor end; what is eternal hath
no bounds. If it be eternal, and not limited by time, it must be
infinite, and not to be restrained by any finite object: his power
never begun to be, nor ever ceaseth to be; it cannot languish; men
are fain to unbend themselves, and must have some time to recruit
their tired s irits: but the ower of God is r etuall vi rous,
without any iliterru ting qualin (Isa. xl. 2%: “  thou riot lgiiown,
hast thou not heardi that the everlasting od,-the Lord, the Creator
of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary?" That might
which suffered no diminution from eternity, but hatched so great a
world by brooding iépon nothing, will not suifer any dimnew or de-
crease to eternity. his power beirig the same wit his emence, is
as durableas his essence, and resides for ever in his nature.
8. The eighth consideration, for the right understanding of this
attribute, the impossibility of God’s doing some things, is no in-
  of his almightiness, but rather a strengthening of it. It is
gl°anted that some things God cannot do; or, rather, as Aquinas and
others, it is better to say, such things cannot be done, than to say
that God cannot do them; to remove all kind of imputation or re-
flection of weakness on Giod,‘ and because the reason of the impos-
Blblllt of those things 18 in the nature of the things themselves.
1. gome things are impossible in their own nature. Such are all
those things which imply a contradiction; as for a thing to be, and
not to be at the same time; for the sun to shine, and not to shine at
the same moment of time; for a creature to act, and not to act at the
same instant: one of those parts must be false; for if it be true that
the sun shines this moment, it must be false to say it doth not shine.
So it is impossible that a rational creature can be without reason:
'Tis a contradiction to be a rational creature, and yet want that
which is essential to a rational creature. So it is impossible that the
will of man can be compelled, because liberty is the essence 0* the
' Crell. de Deo. cap. 22. _ ‘ Robins. Observ. p. l4~

