ON THE Powmz or con. 27
will, while it is will it cannot be constrained; and if it be constrained,
it ceaseth to be will. God cannot at one time act as the author of
the will and the destroyer of the will.“ It is impossible that vice
and virtue, light and darkness, life and death, should be the same
thing. Those things admit not of a conception in any understand-
ing. Some things are imipossible to be done, because of the incapa-
bility of the subject; as or a creature to be made infinite, indepen-
dent, to preserve itself without the Divine concourse and assistance.
So a brute cannot be taken into communion with God, and to ever-
lmting spiritual blessedness, because the nature 3 a brute is incapa-
ble of such an elevation: a rational creature o y can understand
and relish spiritual delights, and is capable to enjoy God, and have
communion with him. Indeed, God may change the nature of a
brute, and bestow such faculties of understanding and will upon it,
as to render it capable of such a blessedness; but then it is no more
a brute, but a rational creature: but, while it remains a brute, the
excellenc of the nature of God doth not admit of communion with
such a subject; so that this is not for want of power in Qod, but be-
cause of a deficiency in the creature: to su pose that God could make
a contradiction true, is to make himself false, and to do just nothin .
2. Some things are impossible to the nature and being of God.
As to die, implies a flat repugnance to the nature of God; to be able
to die, is to be able to be cashiered out of being. If God were able
to deprive himself of life, he might then cease to be: he were not
then a necessary, but an uncertain, contin ent being, and could not
be said only to have immortality, as he is%1 Tim. vi. 16). He can-
not die who is life itself; and necessarily existent; he cannot grow
old or decay, because he cannot be measured by time: and this is
no part of weakness, but the perfection of power. His power is
that whereby he remains forever fixed in his own everlasting being.
That cannot be reckoned as necessary to the omnipotence of God
which all mankind coimt a part of weakness in themselves: God is'
omni tent, because he is not impotent; and if he could die, he
woulda be impotent, not omnipotent: death is the feebleness of 'na-
ture. It is undoubtedly, the greatest impotence to cease to be: who
would count it a part of omnlpotency to disenable himself, and sink
into nothing and not being? The impossibility for God to die is
not a Et article to impeach his omnipotence; this would be a strange
Wag of arguing: at   is not POW6l'&1l,b608.'l1B6 it is not feeble,
an cannot cease to powerful, for death is a cessation of all
power. God is almighty in doing what he will, not in suffering
what he will not.= To die is not an active, but a passive ower; a
defect of a power: God is of too noble a nature to perish). Some
things are impossible to that emineney of 'nature which he hath
above all creatures; as to walk, sleep, eed, these are ~imperfections
belonging to bodies and compounde natures. If he could walk, he
were not everywhere present: motion speaks succession. If he
could increase, he would not have been perfect before.
3. Some things are impossible to the glorious perfectic ns of God.
Bodcannot do anything unbecoming is holiness and goodness;
‘ Magnlsno. de Scientia Dei, Part ll. c. 6, §. 8. ' Aug |.

