28 onnivocx ON ms Arrnrsurrs.
any thing unworthy of himself, and against the perfections of hit
nature. God can o whatsoever he can will. As he doth actually
do whatsoever he doth actually will, so it is possible for him to do
whatsoever it is possible for him to will. He doth whatsoever he
will, and can do whatsoever he can will; but he cannot do what he
cannot will: he cannot will any unrighteous thing, and therefore
cannot do any unrighteous thing. Go cannot love sin, this is con-
trary to his holiness; he cannot violate his word, this is a denial of
his truth; he cannot lpunish an innocent, this is contrary to his
goodness; he cannot c erish an impenitent sinner, this is an injury
to his justice; he chnnot forglet what is done in the world, this is a
disgrace to his omniscience; e cannot deceive ~his creature, this is
contrary tohis faithfulness: none of these things can be done by
him, because of the perfection of his nature. Would it not be an
imperfection in God toabsolve the guilty, and condemn the inno-
cent? Is it congruous to the righteous and holy nature of God, to
command murder and adultery; to command men not to worship
him, but to be base and unthankful? These things would beagainst
the rules of righteousness; as, when we say of a good man, he can-
not rob or iight a. duel, we do not mean that he wants a courage for
such an act, or that he hath not a natural strength and knowledge
to manage his weapon as well as another, but he hath a righteous
principle strong in im which will not sulfer him to do it; his will
is sett ed against it: no power can pass into act unless applied bythe
will ; but the will of God cannot will anything but what is worthy
of him, and decent for his goodness.
(1.) The Scripture saith it is impfossible for God to lie (Heb. vi.
18); and God cannot deny himse because of his faithfulness (2
Tim.   13). As he cannot die, because he is life itself; as he can
not deceive, because he is goodness itself; as he cannot do an un-
wise action, because he is wisdom itself, so he cannot speak a false
Word, because he is truth itselfl If he should speak an 'thing as
true, and not know it, where is his infinite knowledge and compre-
hensiveness of understanding; If he should speak anything as
true, which he knows to be fa , where is his infinite righteousness?
If he should deceive any creature, there is in end of his rfection
of fidelity and veracity. If he should be deceived himseii? there is
an end o his omniscience; we must then fancy him to be a deceit
ful God, an ignorant God, that is, no God at all. If he should lie,
he would be God and no God; God upon supposition, and no God,
because not the 'first truth.Y All unrighteousness is weakness, noi
power; it is a defection from right reason, a deviation from moral
principles, and the rule of perfect action, and ariseth from 9. defect
of goodn  and ower: it is a. weakness, and not omnipot/ence, to
lose goodnem: Gad is light; it is the perfection of light not to be-
come darkness, and a want of power in light, if it should become
darkness :I his power is infinite y strong, so is his wisdom ininitely
clear, and his will infinitel pure: wou d it not be a part of weak-
ness to have a disorder in himself; and these perfections shock one
against another? Since all perfections are in God; in the most sov-
I Beam. sum Theolog. p. 88. ' Maximus Tyriu.

