I
on 'rim Pownn or Gon. 29
ereign height of perfection, nothing can be done by the iniiniteuess
of one against the infiniteness of the other. He would then be lm-
stable in his own erfections, and depart from the innnite rectitude
of his own will,  he should do an evil action. Again,” what is an
argument of greater strength, than to be utterly ignorant of infirm-
ity? God is omnipotent because he cannot do evil, and would not
be omni tent if he could; those thipgs would be marks of weak~
ness, andxiiot characters of majesty. ould you count a sweet foun-
tain impotent because it cannot send forth bitter streams? or the sun
wfmk, because it cannot diffuse darkness as well as light in the air?
There is an inability arising from weakness, and an ability arising
from rfection: it is the perfection of angels and blesse spirits,
that tl-igy cannot sin; and it would be the imperfection of God, if he
could do evil.
Q 2.) Hence it follows, that it is impossible that a thing past should
not be past. If we ascribe a power to God, to make a thing that is
past not to be past, we do not truly ascribe power to him, but a
weakness; for it is to make God to ie, as though God might not
have created man, yet, after he had created Adam, though he should
presently have reduced Adam to his first nothing, yet it would be
orever true that Adam was created, and it would forever be false that
Adam never was created: so, though God may prevent sin, yet
when sin hath been committed, it will alway be true that sin was
committed; it will never be true to say such a. creature that did sin,
did not sin; his sin cannot be recalled: though God, by ardon,
take off the guilt of Peter’s denying our Saviour, yet it will ‘be eter~
nally true that Peter did deny him., It is re ugnant to the right-
eousness and truth of God to makethat which was once true to be-
come false, and not true; that is, to make a truth to become a. lie,
and a lie to become a truth. This is well argued from Heb. vi. 18 :
“Itisimpowible for God to lie.” The apostle argues, that what
God had promised and sworn will come to ass, and cannot but
come to pass.” Now, if God could make a thing plast not to be
East, this consequence would not be good, for then e might make
`mself not to have promised, not to have sworn, after he hath
promised and sworn; and so, if there were a power to undo that
which is past, there would be no foundation for faith, no 'certainty
of revelation. It cannot be asserted, that God hath created the
world; that God hath sent his Son to die; that God hath accepted
hisdeath for man. These might not be true, if it were possible,
that that which hath been done, might be said never to have been
done: so that what any may imagine to be a want of power in God,
is the highest perfection of God, and the greatest security to a be-
lieving creature that hath to do with God.
4. Some thin are impossible to be done, because of God’s ordi-
nation. Some xings are im ossible, not in their own nature, but in
regard of the determined will of God: so God might have destroy-
ed the world after Adam’s fall, but it was impossible; not that God
wanted power to do it, but because he did not only decree from
eternity to create the world, but did also decree to re eem the world
Ambrose. * Becan. sum. Theol. p. 84. C1-eL de Deo, cap. 22.

