80 crmasocx ox rss Arrmsvrss.
by Jesus Christ, and erected the world in order to the manifestation
of his “ glo in Christ” (E h. i. 4, 5). The choice of some in
Christ was ‘fbefore the foundation of the world." Supposing that
there was no hindrance in the justice of God to pardon thesm of Adam
after his fall, and to execute no punishment on him, yet in regard
of God’s threatening, that in the day he eat of the forbidden fruit
he should die, it was impossible: so, though it was possible that the
cup should pass from our blessed Saviour that is, possible in its own
nature, yet it was not ssible in re ard of the determination of
God’s will, since he hadplboth decreef and ublished his will to re-
deem man by the passion and blood of his gon. These things God,
by his absolute power, might have done; but upon the account of
his decree, they were im ossible, because it, is repugnant to the na-
ture of God to be mutable: it is to deny his own wisdom which
contrived them, and his own will which resolved them, not to do
that which he had decreed to do. This would be a diiiidence in his
wisdom, and a change of his will. The impossibility of them is no
result of a want of power, no mark of an imperfection, of feeble-
ness and impotence; but the perfection of immutability and un-
changeableness. Thus have I endeavored to 've you a right no-
tion of this excellent attribute of the power of god, in as plain terms
as I could, which may serve ns for a matter of meditation, admira-
tion, fear of him, trust in him, which are the proper uses we should
make of this doctrine of Divine power. The want of a ri ht un-
derstanding of this doctrine of the Divine ower hath caused many
to run into mighty absurdities; I have, therefore, taken the more
pains to explain it. .
II. The second thing I proposed, is the reasons to prove God to
be omni otent. The Scripture describes God by this attribute of
power (las. cxv. 3): “He hath done whatsoever he pleased.” It
sometimes sets forth his power in a way of derision of those that
seem to doubt of it. When Sarah doubted of his ability to give her
a child in her old age (Gen. xviii. 14 , “ Is anything too hard forthe
Lord?" They deserve to be scoife that willdespoil God_ of his
strength, and measure him by their shallow models. And when
Moses uttered something of unbelief of this “attribute as if God were
not able ,to feed 600,000 Israelites, besides women and children,
which he ag vates by a kind of imperious scoff ; “Shall the flocks
and the herd? be slain for them to suffice them? Or, shall all the
fish of the sea be gathered together for them?" &c. (Numb. xi. 22?
God takes him up short (ver. 23) : “ Is the Lord’s hand waxed short ”
What! can any weakness seize upon my hand? Can I draw out of
my own treasures what is needfu for a supply? The hand of God
is not at one time strong, and another time feeble. Hence it is that
we read of the hand and arm of God, an outstretched arm; because
the strength of a man is exerted by his hand and arm; the power of
God is called the arm of his wer, and the light hand of his strength
Sometimes, according to til); different manifestation of it, it is ex-
pressed by finger, when a less ower is evidenced; by hand, when
something greater; by arm, when more mighty than the former
Since God is etemal, without limits of time, he is also Almighty,

