ON Tina: Powsn or eon. 31
without limits of strength. As he cannot be said to be more in being
now than he was before, so he is neither more nor less in strength
than he was before: as he cannot cease to be so, so he cannot
cease to be powerful, because he is eternal. His eternity and (power
are linked together as equall demonstrable (Rom. i. 2O); od is
called the God of ods El illohim qgan. xi. 36); the Mighty of
mighties, whence all mi hty persons ave their activity an vigor:
he is called the Lord of %osts, as being the Creator and Conductor
of the heavenl militia.
Reason 1. Tlie wer that is in creatures demonstrates a greater
and an unconceivaitimlie power in God. Nothing in the world is without
a power of activity according to its nature: no creature but can act
something. The sun warms and enlightens everything ; it sends its
influences upon the earth, into the bowels of the earth, into the depths
of the sea: all generations owe themselves to its instrumental virtue.
How powerful is a small seed to rise into a mighty tree with a lofty
top, and extensive branches, and send forth other seeds, which can
sti l multiply into numberless plants! How wonderful is the ower
of the Creator, who hath endowed so small a creature as a seed: with
so fruitful an activit I Yet this is but the v=irtue of a limited nature.
God is both the producing and preserving cause of all the virtue in
any creature, in every creature. Theupower of every creature be-
longs to him as the Fountain, and is t y his power in the creature.
As he is the first Being, he is the original of all being ; as he is the
iixst Good, he is the s ring of all goodness; as he is the first Truth,
he is the source of ail truth; so, as he is the first Power, he is the
fountain of all wer.
1. He, therefiige, that commimicates to the creature what ower it
hath, contains eminently much more power in himself glgis. xeiv.
10), “He that teaches man knowled , shall not he know ? ’ So he
that gives created beings power, shallenot he be powerful ? The Hrst
Being must have as much power as he hath given to others: he could
not transfer that upon another, which he did not transcendently
pomess himself The sole cause of created power cannot be destitute
of any power in himself We see that the power of one creature
transcends the power of another. Beasts can do the things tl_:\t
plants cannot do; besides the power of growth, they have a power
of sense add progressive motion. Men can do more than beasts;
they have rations souls to measure the earth and heavens, and to be
repositories of multitudes of things, notions, and conclusions. We
may well imagne angels to be far superior to man: the ower of the
Creator must r surmount the power of the creature, and) must needs
be infinite: for if it be limited, it is limited by himself or by some
other; if by some other, he is no longer a Creator, but a creature;
for that which limits him in his nature, did communicate that nature
to him; not by himself, for he would not deny himself any neces-
Sary perfection: we must still conclude a reserve of power in him,
that e that made these can make many more of the same kind.
_ 2. All the power which is distinct in the creatures, must be united
in God. One creature hath a strexégth to do this, another to do that'
every creature is as a cistern fill with a particular and limited

