32 \ ensauocir ON THE Arramvrm
power; accordirg to the capacity of its nature, from this fountain,
all are distinct streams from God. But the strength of every creature
though oistinct in the rank of creatures, is united in God the centre,
whence those lines were drawn, the fountain whence those streams
were derived. If the plower of one creature be admirable, as the
power of an angel, whic the Psalmist saith (Ps. ciii. 20), “ excelleth
in strength ;” how much greater must the power of a legion of angels
bel How inconceivably superior the power of all those numbers of
spiritual natures, which are the excellent works of God l Now, if all
t is particular power, which is in every angel distinct, were com-
pacted in one angel, how would it exceed our understanding, and be
above our power to form a. distinct conception of itl VVhat is thus
divided in every angel, must be thought united in the Creator of
angels, and far more excellent in him. Everything is in a more noble
manner in the fountain, than in the streams which distil and descend
from it. He that is the Original of all those distinct wers, must be
the seat of all power without distinction: in him is 3; union of all
without division; what is in them as a quality, is in him as his
essence. Again, if all the powers of several creatures, with all their
principal clualities and vigors, both of beasts, plants, and rational
creatures, were united in one subject; as if one lion had the strength
of all the lions that ever were; or, if one elephant had the strength
of all the elephants that ever were; nay, if one bee had all the power
of motion and stinging that all bees ever had, it would have a vast
strength; but if the strength of all those thus gathered into one of
ever kind should be lodged in one sole creature, one man, would it
not lie a strength too big for our conception? Or, suppose one can-
non had all the force of all the cannons that ever were in the world,
what a batte would it make, and, as it were, shake the whole frame
of heaven anldyearthl All this strength must be much more incom ie-
hensible in God; all is united in him. If it were in one individiual
created nature, it would still be but a finite power in a finite nature:
but in God it is infinite and immense. ,
Reason 2. If there were not an incomcpreliensible power in God,
he would not be inhnitely perfect. Go is the first Being; it can
only be said of him, Est, he is. All other things are nothing to him;
“less than nothin and vanity” (Isa. xl. 17), and “ reputed as nothing"
(Dan. iv. 85% Aa the inhabitants of the earth, with all their wit
and strengt ,are counted as if they were not; just in comparison
with Him and his being, as a little mote in the sun-beams: God,
tluwefore, is a pure Being. Any kind of weakness whatsoever is a
defect, a degree of not being; so far as anything wants this or that
power, it may be said not to be. Were there anything of weakness
in God, any want of strength which belonged to the perfection of
a nature, it might be said.of God, He is not this or that, he wants
this or that perfection of Being, and so he would not be algure Being,
there would be something of not being in him. But G being the
‘irst Being, the only original Being, he is infinitely distant from not
being, and thcretbre infinitely distant from anything of weaknew-
Again, i f God can know whatsoever is possible to be done by hlflh
and cannot do it, there would be something more in his knowledge

