ON 'rss Pownn or con. 83
than in his wer.° What would then follow? That the essence of
God would bi; in some regard greater than itself; and less than itself,
because his knowledge and his power are his essence; his power as
much his essence as his know edge: and therefore, in regard of
his knowledge, his essence would be greater; in regard of his power,
his essence would be less; which is a thing impossible to be cou-
ceived in a most perfect Being. We must understand this of those
things which are roperly and in their own nature subjected to
the Divine knowled)ge; for otherwise God knows more than he can
do, for he knows sin, but he cannot act it, because sin belongs not
to power but weakness; and sin comes under the knowledge of God,
not in itself and its own nature, but as it is a defect from God, and
contrary to good, which is the proper object of Divine knowledge.
He knows it also not as possible to be done by himself, but as possi-
ble to be done by the creature. Again, if God were not omnipotent,
we might imagine something more perfect than God :d for if we bar
God from any one thing which in its own nature is possible, we may
imagine a being that can do that thing, one that is able to effect ‘it;
and so imagine an agent greater than God, a being able to do more
than God is able to o, and consequentl a bein more perfect than
God: but no being more perfect than god canie imagined by any
creature. Nothing can be called most perfect, if anything of activity
be wanting to it. Active power follows the perfection of a thing,
and all things are counted more noble by how much more of eflicacy
and virtue they possess. We count those the best and most perfect
plants, that have the greatest medicinal virtue in them, and power
f working upon the body for the cure of distempers. God is per-
hct of himself, and therefore most powerful of himself If his per-
fection in wisdom and goodness be unsearchable, his power, which
belongs to perfection, and without which all the other excellcncies of
his nature were insignificant, and could not show themselves, (as was
before evidenced,) must be unsearchable also. It is by the title of
Almighty he is denominated, when declared to be unsearchable to
perfection (Job xi. 7): "‘Canst thou by searching find out God, canst
thou find out the Almighty to perfection ?” This would be limited
and searched out, if he were destitute of an active ability to do
whatsoever he pleased to do, whatsoever was possible to be done.
As he hath not a perfect liberty of will, if he could not will what
he pleased; so he would not have a perfect activity, if he could not
do what he willed.
Reason 3. The simplicity of God manifests it. Every substance,
the more spiritual it is, the more powerful it is. All perfections are
more united in a simple, than in a compounded being. Angels,
being spirits, are more powerful than bodies. Where diem is the
greatest simplicity, there is the greatest unity; and where there is
the greatest unity, there is the greatest power. Where there is a
composition of a faculty and a member, the member or organ may
beweakened and rendered unable to act, though the power dot
still reside in the facult . As a man, when his arm or hand is cut
off or broke, he hath the faculty of motion still ; but he hath lost
' Victorin in Petar. Tom. I. p. 333. * Ibid. p. 233.
vol.. Ir.-3

