84 cmumocx ON 'nm Arrnrsnrns.
that instrument that art whereby he did manifest and put forth
that motion: but God) being a pure spiritual nature, hath no mem-
bers, no organs to be defaced or impaired All impediments of
actions arise either from the nature of the thing that acts, or from
something .without it. -There can be no hindrance to God to dc
whatsoever he pleases; not in himself] because he is the most sim-
ple being, hath no contrariety in himself; is not composed of divers
things; and it cannot be from anything without himself] because
nothingis equal to him, much less superior. He is the greatest, the
Supreme: all things were made by him, depend upon him, nothing
can disappoint his intentions.
Reason 4. The miracles that have been in the world evidence the
power of God. Extraordinary productions have awakened men
rom their stupidity, to the acknowledgment' of the immensity of
Divine power. Miracles are such effects as have been wrought
without the assistance and co-operation of natural causes, yea, con-
trary and besides the ordinary course of nature, above the reach of
any created power. Miracles have been; and saith Bradwardinef
to deny that ever such things were, is uncivil: it is inhuman to
deny all the histories of Jews and Christians; whosoever denie
miracles, must deny all plossibility of miracles, and so must imagine
himself fully skilled in t e extent of Divine power. How was the
sun suspen ed from its motion for some hours (Josh. x. 13); “the
dead raised from the grave ;” those reduced from the brink of it,
that had been brought near to it by prevailing diseases; and this by
a word speaking? How were the famished lions bridled from ex-
ercisin their rage upon Daniel, ex osed to them for a prey (Dan
vi. 22)§ the activity of the fire curgJed‘ for the preservation of the
three children (Dan. iii. 15)? which proves a Deity more powerfm
than all creatures. No power upon earth can hinder the operation
of the Ere upon combustible matter, when they) are united, unless by
quenching t e fire, or removing the matter: ut no created power
can restrain the fire, so long as it remains so, from acting according
to its nature. This was done by God in thecase of the three ch' -
dren, and that of the burning bush (Exod. iii. 2). It was as much
miraculous that the bush should not consume, as it was natural that
it should burn by the eiiicacy of the 'fire upon it. No element is so
obstinate and deaf; but it hears and obeys his voice, and performs
his orders, though contrary to its own nature: all the violence or
the creature is suspended as soon as it receives his command He
that gave the original to nature, can take away the necessity of na-
ture ;f he presides over creatures, but is not confined to those laws
he hath prescribed to creatures. He framed nature, and. can turn
the channels of nat1u°e according to his own pleasure. Men dig into
the bowels of nature, search into all the treasures of it, to find
medicines to cure a disease, and after all their attempts it may
rove labor in vain: but God, by one act of his will, one word of
his mouth, ovcrturns the victory of death, and rescues from the mos!
desperate discaseas All the miracles which were wrought by the
apostles, either speaking some words or touching with the and,
U Hb. i. mp. l. p. 38. f Damizmus, in Petar. I’ Fauch. in Acta. Vol. II. §56~

