oN 'rim rowna or son. 85
were not eH`ected by any virtue inherent in their words or in their
touches; for such virtue inherent in any created finite subject would be
created and finite itself] and consequently were incapable to produce
effects which required an infinite virtue, as miracles do which are
above the wer of nature. So when our Saviour wrought miracles,
it was not hy any quality resident in his human nature, but by the
sole power of his Divinity. The flesh could only do what was
proper to the flesh; but the Deity did what was prqper to the Deity.
“God alone doth wonders” (Ps. cxxxvi. 4); exclu ing every other
cause from producing those things. He only doth those things
which are above the plower of nature, and cannot be wrought by
any natural causes w atsoever. He doth not hereby put his omni-
potence to any stress: it is as easy with him to turn nature out of
its settled course, as it was to place it in that station it holds, and
appoint it that course it runs. All the works of nature are indeed
miracles and testimonies of the power of God producin them, and
sustaining them: but works above the power o nature, geing novel-
ties and unusual, strike men with a greater admiration upon their
appearance, because they arenot the products of nature, but the
convulsions of it. I might also add as an argument, the power of
the mind of man to conceive more than hath been wrought by God
in the world. And God can work whatsoever erfeetion the mind
of man can conceive: otherwise the reaches ofp a created imagina-
tion and fancy would be more extensive than the power of God.
His power, therefore, is far greater than the conception of any intel~
lectual creature; else the creature would be of a greater capacity to
conceive than God is to eifect. The creature would have a power
of conception above God’s power of activitly; and consequently a
creature, in some respect greater than himse _ Now whatsoever a
creature can conceive possible to be done, is but finite in its own
nature; and if God could not produce what being a. created under-
standing can conceive possible to be done, he would be less than
infinite in power, nay, he could not go to the extent of what is
finite. But I have touched this before; that God can create more
than he hath created, and in a more perfect way of being, as con-
sidered simply in themselves.
lll The third general thing is to declare how the power of God
appears in Creation, in Government, in Redemption. ,
nzsr, In CREATION. With what majestic lines doth God set
for his power, in the giving being and endowments to all the crea-
tures in the world (Job xxxviii.)I All that is in heaven and earth
i8 his, and shows the greatness of his power, glory, victory, and ma-
jesty (1 Chron. xxix. 11). The heaven being so magnidcent a piece
of work, is called emphatically, “the firrnament of his ower’ (Es.
cl. 1); his power being more conspicuous and unavaiied in t at
glorious arch of the world. Indeed, “God exalts by his power”
(Job xxxvi. 22), that is, exalts himself by his power in all the
works of his hands; in the smallest shrub, as well as the most
glorious sun. All his works of nature are truly miracles, though
we consider them not, being blinded with two frequent and cus-
tomary a sight of them; yet, in the neglect of all the rest, the view

