86 cmauocx on 'mn nrrnmnns. `
of the heavens doth more affect us with astonishment at the might
of God’s arm: these declare his glory, and “the Hrmament showeth
his handy work” (Ps. xix. 1). And the Psalmist peculiarly calls
them his heavens, and the work of his Bngers (Ps. viii. 3); these
were immediately created b God, whereas many other things in the
world were brought into iieing by the power of God, yet by the
means of the influence of the heavens.
1. His power is the first thin evident in the sto of the creation
“In the beginning God create; the heavens and ae earth” (Gen. i.
1). There is no appearance of anything in this declaratory preface,
but of power: the characters of wisdom march after in_ the distinct
formation of things, and animating them with suitable qualities for
an universal good. By heaven and earth, is meant the whole mass
of the creatures: by heaven, all the airy region, with all the host of
it; by the earth, is meant, all that which makes the entire inferior
globe! The Jews observe, that in the Hrst of Genesis, in the whole
chapter, unto the finishing the work in six days, God is called ='~n‘»=,
which is a name of Power, and that thirty-two times in that chapter;
but after the finishing the six days’ work, he is called CTHBRH, W `ch,
according to their notion, is a name of goodness and kindness: his
power is first visible in framing the world, before his goodnessis
visible in the sustaining and preserving it. It was b this name of
Power and Almighty that he was known in the get agesof the
world, not by his name, Jehovah (Exod. vi. 8); “And I appeared
unto Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, by the name of God Almighty; but
by my name Jehovah was I not known to them.” _ Not but that they
were acquainted with the name, but did not experience the .intent of
the name, which signined his truth in the performance of his prom-
ises; they knew him by that name as promising, but they knew him
not by that name, as performing. He would be known ylhis name
Jehovah, true to his word, when he was about to effect t e deliver-
ance from,Egypt; a type of the eternal redemption, wherein the
truth .of God, in performing of his first promise, is gloriously magm-
ned. And hence it is that God is called Almi ht more in the book
of Job than in all the Scripture besides, I- think about thirty-two
times, and Jehovah but once, which is Job   9, unless in_ Job
xxxviii. when God is introduced speaking himself; which is an
argument of J ob’s living before the deliverance from Egypt, when
God was known more by his works of creation than by the perform-
ance of his romises, before the name Jehovah was formallglpublish-
ed. Indeedi this attribute of his eternal power, is the t thing
visible and intelligible upon the first glance of the eye upon the
creatures (Rom. i. 20). . Bring a man out of the cave w ere e hath
been nursed, without seeing anlything out of the confines of it, and
let him liR up his eyes to the eavens, and take a prospect of that
glorious body, the sun, then cast them down to the earth, and behold
the surface of it, with its green clothing; the first notion which Wlu
start u in his mind &om that sprin of wonders, is that o§'1p0“'€1'»
which he will at first adore with a religious astonishment. e vw'
dom of God in them is not so presently apparent, till after a. m01'°
*Mer-eer.p.'7,ooL1,2.

