ON rm: rownn or con. 87
exquisite consideration of his works and knowledge of the roper-
ties of their natures, the conveniency of their situations, and the use-
fulness of their functions, and the order wherein they are linked
together for the good of the universe.
2. By this creative power God is often distinguished from all the
idols and false gods in the world. And by this title he sets forth
himself when he would act any great and wonderful work in the
world (Ps. cxxxv. 5, 6): “He is great above all gods," for “he hath
done whatsoever he pleased in heaven and in earth.” Upon this is
founded all the worship he challengeth in the world, as his peculiar,
glory (Rev. iv. 11): “Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory,
onor, and power, for thou hast created all things.” And (Rev. x. 6)
“I have made the earth, and created man upon it." “ I, even m
hands, have stretched out the heavens, and all their host havel
commanded” (Isa. xlv. 12). What is the issue (ver. 16)7 “They
shall be ashamed and confounded, all of them, that are makers of
idols.” And the weakness of idols is expressed by this title. “The
gods that have not made the heavens and the earth” (Jer. x. 11).
“ The portion of Jacob is not like them, for he is the former of all
things’ (ver. UQ. What is not that God able to do, that hath created
so great a worl ? How doth the power of God appear in creation `?
lst. In making the world of nothing. When we say, the world
was made of nothing, we mean, that there was no matter existent for
Gnd to work upon, but what he- raised himself in the first act of
creation. In this regard, the power of God in creation surmounts
hispower in providence. Creation supposeth nothing, providence
supposeth something in being. Creation intimates a creature making,
providence speaks a thing already made, and capable of government,
and in government. God uses second causes to bring about his
P‘"P°sf’& _ _ _ .
1. The world was made of nothing. The earth which is described
as the first matter, without ang form or ornament, without any disf
tinction or figures, was of Go ’s forming in the bulk, before he did
adom it with his pencil (Gen. i. 1, 2%. God, in the beginning, crea-
ting the heaven and the earth, inc udes two thin : First. That
those were created in the beginning of time, and afore all other
things. Second] _ That God begun the creation of the world from
those things) Tlierefore before t e heavens and the earth there was
nothing absolutely created, and therefore no matter in being before
an act of creation passed upon it. It could not be eternalflaecause
nothing can be eternal but God; it must therefore have a beginning.
If it had a beginning from itself, then it was before it was. If it
acted in the making itself before it was made, then it had a being
before it had a being; for that which is nothing, can act nothing:
the action of anything supposeth the existence of the thing which
acts. It being made, it was not before it was made ; for to be made
is to be brought into being. It was made, then, by another, and
that Maker is God. It is necessary that the First Original of things
was from nothing: when we see one thing to arise from another, we
must suppose an original of the first of each kind; as, when we Bee
' Suarez, VOL [IL p. 88.

