88 cnainrocx ON ma nramuras.
a tree spring u froma seed, we know that seed came out of the
bowels of anotlier tree; it had a parent, it had a master; we must
come to some first, or else we run into an endless maze: we must
come to some first tree, some Hrst seed that had no cause of the same
kind, no matter of it, but was mere nothing. Creation doth sup osc
a production from nothing; because, if you suppose a thing without
any real or actual existence, it is not capable o any other production
than from nothing: nothing must be supposed before the world, or
we must suppose it eternal, and that is to deny it to be a creature,
and make it God.|< The creation of spiritual substances, such as
anglels and souls, evince this ; those- things that are purely spiritual,
an consist not of matter, cannot pretend to apty original from matter,
and therefore they rose up from nothing. spiritual things arose
from nothing, much more may corporeal, because they are of a lower
nature than spiritual; and he that can create a higher nature of
nothing, can create an inferior nature of nothing. As bodily things
are more im erfect than spiritual, so their creation may be supposed
easier than that of spiritual. There was as little need of any matter
to be wrought to his hands, to contrive into this visible fabric, as
ihere was to erect such an excellent order as the glorious chem-
uns.
2. This creation of things from nothing speaks an infinite power
The distance between nothin ‘and being hath been alway counted
so great, that nothing but anglnfinite Power can make such distances
meet together, either for nothing to pass into being, or bein to re-
turn to nothing. To have a thing arise from nothing, wasso diiicult
a text to those that were ignorant of the Scripture, that they knew
not how to fathom it, and therefore laid it down as a certain rule,
that of nothing, nothing is made ; which is true of a created power,
but not of an uncreated and Almighty Power. A ater distance
cannot be imagined than that which is between nogiiiiig and some-
thing; that which hath no being, and that which hath; and a greater
power cannot be imagined than that which brings something out of
nothing. We know not how to conceive a nothing, and afterwards
a being from that nothing; but we must remain swallowed up in
admiration of the Cause that gives it being, and acknowledge it to
be without any bounds and measures of greatness and power. The
further anything is from being, the more immense must that power
be which rin it into being: it is not conceivable that the power
of all the angel; in one can give being to the smallest Spire of gram.
To imagine, therefore, so small a thing as a bee, a il , a grain of
corn, or an atom of dust, to be made of nothing, woulg stu fy any
creature in the consideration of it, much more to behold the }heeavens,
with all the troo of stars; the earth, with all its embroidery; and
the sea, with all her inhabitants of fish; and man, the noblest crea-
t1u°e of all, to a.rise out of the womb of mere emptiness. Indeed,
God had not acted as an almighty Creator, if he had stood in need
of any materials but of his own framin : it had been as much as his
Deity was worth, if he -had not had 51 within the compass of his
own power that was necessary to operation; if he must have been
* Suarez, Vol. III. p. 6. | Amyrald Morale. Tom. L rl. 251.

