ON rm-1 rowaa or son. S9
beholden to something without himself, and above himself, for mat-
ter to work upon: had there been such a necessity, we could not
have imagine him to be omnipotent, and, consequently, not God.
3. I n_ this the power of God exceeds the power of all natural and
rational agents. Nature, or the order of second causes, hath a vast
power; the sun generates flies and other insects, but of some matter,
the slime of the earth or a dunghill; the sun and the earth bring
forth harvests of corn, but from seed 'drst sown in the earth; fruits
are brought forth, but from the sap of the plant; were there no seed
ogaplants in the earth, the power of the earth would be idle, and the
i uence of the sun insignificant; whatsoever strength either of
them had in their nature, must be useless without matter to work
upon. All the united strength of nature cannot produce the least
thing out of nothing; it may multiply and increase things, b
the powerful blessing God gave it at the Hrst erecting of the worltf
but it cannot create. The word which si ities creation, used in Gen.
i. 1, is not ascribed to any second cause, hilt onl to God; a word,
inthat sense, as incommunicable to an thing ellie as the action it
signifies. Rational creatures can prodiice admirable pieces of art
nom small things, yet still out of matter created to their hands. Ex-
cellent garments may be woven, but from the entrails of a small
silkworm. Delightful and medicinal spirits and essences may be ex-
tracted, by ingenious chemists, but out of the bodies of plants and
minerals No picture can be drawn without colors; no statue eu-
gmven without stone; no building erected without timber, stones,
and other materials: nor can any man raise a thought without some
matter framed to his hands, or cast into him. Matter is, by nature,
formed to the hands of all artificers; they bestow a new figure upon
it, by the help of instruments, and the product of their own wit and
skill, but they create not the least particle of matter; when they
want it, they must be supplied or else stand still, as well as nature,
for none of them, or all together, can make the least mite or atom :
and when they have wrought all that they can, they will not want
some to find a flaw and defect in their work. God, as a Creator,
hath the only rerogative to draw what he pleases from nothing,
without an d)efcct, without any imperfection: he can raise what
matter he please; ennoble it with what form he leases. Of nothing,
nothing can be made, by any created agent.: hut the omnipotent
Architect of the world is not under the same necessity, nor is limited
to the same rule, and tied by so short a tedder as created nature, or
an ingenious, yet feeble artificer.
2d. It appears, in raisin such variety of creatures from this bar-
ren womb of nothin , or gem the matter which he 'first commanded
to aptpear out of nothing. Had there been any pre-existent matter,
yet e bringing forth such varieties and diversities of excellent
creatures, some with life, some with sense, and others with reason
Superadded to the rest, and those out of indisposed and undigestcd
matter, would ar ue an infinite wer resident in the irst Author of
this variegated fziric. From t£ matter he formed that glorious
sun, which every day displays its glory, scatters its beams, clears the
air, ripens our fruits, and maintains the propagation of creatures in

