40 crumtocz ON rm: .u'rR1BU'rEs.
the world. From this matter he lighted those torches which he set
in the heaven to qualify the darkness of the night: from this he
compacted those bodies of light, which, though they seem to us as
little sparks as if they were the low-worms of heaven, yet some of
them exceed in greatness this glolxfof the earth on which we live:
and the highest of them hath so quick a motion, that some tell us
they run, in the space of every hour, 42,000,000 of leagues. From
the same matter he drew the earth on which we walk; irom thence
he extracted the flowers to adom it, the hills to seciue the valleys,
and the rocks to fortify it against -the inimdations of the sea; and
on this dull and sluggish element he bestowed so great a fruitfulness,
to maintain, feed, and multipl so many seeds of different kinds,
and conferred upon thom little lliodies of seeds a power to multiply
their kinds, in conjunction with the fruitfulness of the earth, to many
thousands. From this rude matter, the slime or dust of the earth,
he kneaded the body of man, and wrought so curious a-fabric, lit te
entertain a soul of a heavenly extraction, formed by the breath of
God (Gen. ii.   He brought light out of thick darkness, and liv-
ing creatures, h and fowl, out of inanimate waters (Gen. i. 20), and
gave a power of spontaneous motion to things arising from that
matter which had no living motion. To convert one thing into
another, is an evidence of iniinite power, as well as creating things
of nothing; for the distance between life and not life is next to that
which is between bein and not being. God Hrst forms matter out
of nothing, and then draws uqsn, and hom this indisposed chaos,
maray excellent portraitures. either earth nor sea were capable of
pro ucing living creatures without an infinite power working upon
111, and brin 'ng into it such variety and multitude of forms; and
this is called? by some, mediate creation, as the producing the chaos,
which was without form and void, is called immediate creation. ls
not the power of the tter admirable in formin , out of tempered
cla , such varieties oflxiieat and curious vemels, tint, after they are
fashioned and ast the f1u'nace, look as if they were not of an ' kiu
to the matter they are formed of ? and is it not ~ the same with the
glass-maker, that, from a little melted jelly of sand and ashes, or the
ust of flint, can blow up so pure a body as glass, and in such va-
rieties of shapes? and is not the power of God more admirable, be-
cause infinite in speaking out so beautiful a world out of nothin ,
and such varieties of living creatures from matter utterly indisposed,
in its own nature, for such forms?
3d. And this conducts to a third thing, wherein the power of God
appears, in that he did all this with the greatest ease and facility.
1. Without instruments. As God made the world without the
advice, ~so without the assistance, of any other: “ He stretched
forth the heavens alone, and spread abroad the earth by himself”
(Isa. xliv. 24). He had no en `ne, but his word; no pattern or
model, but himself What needllcan he have of instruments, that
is able to create what instruments he pleases? Where there is
no resistance inthe object, where no need of preparation or in-
strumental advantage in the agent; there the actua determination
of the will is suilicient to a production. What instrument need

