ON 'mn Pownn or con. 41
we to the thinking of a thought, or an act of our will? Men,
indeed., cannot act an thing without tools; the best artificer must
be beholden to something else for his noblest works of art. The
carpenter cannot work without his rule, and axe, and saw, and
other instruments; the watch-maker cannot act without his file
and pliers; but in creation, there is nothing necessary to God’s
bringing forth a world, but a simple act of his will, which is
both the principal cause, and instrumental. He had no scalfolds
to near it, no engines to polish it, no hammers or mattocks to clod
and work it to ether. It is a miserable error to measure the actions
of an Infinite éause by the imperfect model of a Hnite, since, b his
own “power and out-stretched arm, he made the heaven and' the
earth" sir. xxxii. 17). What excellency would God have in his
work a ve others,i he needed instruments, as feeble men do ?"=
Every artiticer is counted more admirable, that can frame curious
works with the less matter, fewer tools, and assistances. God uses
instruments in his works of providence, not for necessity, but for the
display of his wisdom in the management of them; yet those in-
shuments were originally framed by him without instruments. In-
deed, some of the Jews thought the angels were the instruments of
God in creating man, and that those words, “Let us make man in
our own image ’ (Gen. i. 26), were spoken to angels. But certainly
the Scripture, which denies God any counsellor in the model of
creation (Isa. xl. 12-14), doth not join anv instrument with him in
the operation, which is everywhere ascribed to himself “ without
created assistance” (Isa. xlv. 18). It was not to angels God spake
in that aifairg if so, man was made after the image of angels, if the
were companions with God in that work ; but it is everywhere saiti
that “ Man was made' after the image of God" (Gen. i. 27). Again,
the image wherein man was created, was that of dominion over the
lower creatures, as appears ver. 26, which we find not conferred upon
angels; and it is not 'ke)_y that Moses should introduce the angels,
as God’s privy counsel, o whose creation he had not mentioned one
syllable. “Let us make man,” rather si niiies the Trinity, and not
spoken in a royal style, as some think. §lVhich of the Jewish kings
wrote in the style, life? That was the custom of later times; and
we must not measure the language of Scri ture by the style of
Europe, of a far later date than the penning tlie histo of the crea-
tion. If angels were his counsellors in the creation ollythe material
world, what instrument had he in the creation of angels? If his
own wisdom were the director, and his own will the producer of the
one; why should we not think, that he acted by his sole power in
the other? It is concluded by most, that the power of creation can~
not be derived to any creature, it being a work of omnipotency; the
drawing something out from nothing, cannot be communicated
without a communication of the Deity itself The educing things
from nothing exceeds the capacity of any creature, and the creature
is of too feeble a nature to be e evated to so high a degree. It is
very unreasonable to think, that God needed any such aid. If an
instrument were necessary for God to create the world, then he could
I Gaueud.

