42 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'.l'BIIBU'I‘E.
not do it without that instrument: if he could not, he were not :hen
all-sufficient in himself, if he depended upon anything without him~
self, for the production or consummation of his works. And it
might be inquired, how that instrument came into being; if it
begun to be, and there was a time when it was not, it must have
its being from the lpower of God; and then, why could not God
as well create all t ings without an instrment, as create that in-
strument without an instrument? For there was no more power
necessary to a producing the whole without instruments, than to
produce one creature without an instrument. No creature can,
m its own nature, be an instrument of creation. If any such in-
strument were used by God, it must be elevated in a miraculous
and supernatural way; and what is so an instrument, is, in etiect,
no instrument; for it works nothing by its own nature, but from
an elevation by a superior nature, and be ond its own nature.
All that power in the instrument is truly tlie power of God, and
not the power of the instrument; and, therefore, what God doth
by an instrument, he could do as well without. If you should
see one apply straw to iron, for the cutting of it, and effect it,
you woul not call the straw an instrument in that action, be
cause there was nothing in the `nature of the straw to do it It
was done wholly by some other force, which might have done it
as well without the straw as with it. The narrative of the creation
in Genesis, removes any instrument from God. The plants which
are preserved and pro agated by the influence of the sun, were
created the day before the sun, viz. on the “ third day,” whereas, the
light was collected into the body of the sun on the “fourth day” (Gen.
i. 11, 16); to show, that though the plants do instrumentally owe
their yearly beauty and preservation to the sim, yet they did not in
apy manner owe their creation to the instrumental heat and vigor
o it.
2. God created the world by a word, by a sim le act of his will.
The whole creation is wrought by a word; “ God)said, Let there be
light ;” and “God said, Let there be a firmament.”“ Not that we
should understand it of a sensible word, but understand it of a
powerful order of his own will, which is expressed by the Psalmist
m the nature of a command (Ps. xxxiii 9); “He spa. e, and it was
done; he commanded, and it stood fast;’ and (Ps. cxlviii, 5), “ He
commanded, and the were created.” At the same instant that he
willed them to stand? forth, they did stand forth. The etiicacious
command of the Creator was the original of all things: the insensi-
bility of nothing obeyed the act of his will. Creation is therefore
entitled a calling (Rom. iv. 17): “He calls those things which are
not, as if they were.” To create is no more with God, than to call;
and what he calls, resents itself before him in the same posture that
he calls it. He  with more ease make a world, than we can form
a thought. It is the same ease to him to create worlds, as to decree
them; there needs no more than a resolve to have things wrouvht
at such a time, and they will be, according to his pleasure. This
will is his power; “Let there be light,” is the precept of his will;
‘ Gen. i. 8, 5, due. throughout the whole chapter

