ON ma Powsn or con. 43
and “there was light,” is the effect of his prece t. By a word, was
the matter of the heavens and the earth framed) ; by a word, things
separate themselves hom the rude mass into their proper forms; by
a word, light associates itself into one body, and forms a sun; by a
word, are the heavens, as it were, bespan led with stars, and the
earth dressed with flowers; by a word, is the world both ceiled and
fioored: one act of his will, formed the world, and perfected its
beauty. All the variety and several exploits of his power were not
caused by distinct words or acts of power. God uttered not distinct
words for distinct s ies; as, let there be an elephant, and let there
be a lion ; but as if rodueed those various creatures out of one
matter, so by one word? By one single command, those varieties of
creatures, with their clothing, ornaments, distinct notes, ualities,
functions, were brought forth (Gen. i. 11): by one word, all ilie seeds
of the earth, with their various virtues: by one word, all the fish of
the sea, and fowls of the air, in their distinct natures, instincts, colors
(Gen. i. 20): by one word, all the beasts of the field, with their va-
rieties (Gen. i. 24). Heaven and earth, spiritual and co oreal crea-
tures, mortal and immortal, the greater and the less, vidible and in-
visible, were formed with the same ease :° a word made the least,
and a word made the eatest. It is as little difficulty to him to pro~
dum the highest angeir as the lighest atom. It is enough for the
existence of the stateliest cherubim, for God only to will his being.
It was enough for the forming and fixing the sun, to will the corn-
pacting of light into one body. The creation of the soul of man is
expremed by inspiration (Gen. ii. 7); to show, that it is as easy with
God to create a rational soul, as for man to breathe.P Breathing is
natural to man, by a communication of God’s goodness ; and the
creation of the soul is as easy to God, by virtue of his Almighty
word. As there was no proportion between nothin and being, so
there was as little proportion between a word ani? such glorious
effects. A mere voice, coming from an Omnipotent will, was capa-
bleto roduce such varieties, which angels and men have seen in all
ages oi) the world, and this without weariness. What labor is there
in willing? what pain could there be in speaking a word? (Isa. xl.
28), “ The Creator of the ends of the earth is not weary.” And
though he be said to rest after the creation, it is to be meant a rest
from work, not a repose from wearinew. So great is the wer of
God, that without any matter, without any instruments, he) could
create many worlds, and with the same ease as he made this.
4th. I miffht add also, the ap arance of this power in the instan-
taneous production of things. glare ending of his word was not only
the beginning, but the perfection of every thing he spake into being ;
not several words to several parts and members, but one word, one
breath of his mouth, one act of his will, to the whole s ecies of the
creatures, and to every member in each individual. geaven and
earth were created in a moment; six days went to their disposal;
and that comely order we observe in the world was the work of a
week: the matter was formed as soon as God had spoken the word,
and in every part of the creation, as soon as God spake the word,
° Angus, I Tbwdbrel

