\
44 cnmnocz on rms: srrnmurss.
“Let it be so” (Gen. i.), the answer immediately is, “It was so;*
which notes the present standing up of the creature according to the
qact of his will: and, therefore,<\ one observes, _that “Let there be
light, and there was li ht ;” in the Hebrew are the same words, with
out any alteration of [letter or point, only the oonjunctive particle
added, 'us -ima was ~n'°, “ Let there be lig t, and let there be light,” to
show, that the same instant of the speakinglthe Divine word, was the
apgearance of the creature: so great wast e authority of his wilL
ECONDLY, We are to show God’s power in the Govsnsusm' of
the world. As God decreed from eternity the creation of things in
time, so he decreed from eternity the particular ends of creatures
and their operation respectin those ends. Now, as there was need
of his power to execute his decree of creation, there is also need of
his power to execute his decree about the manner of govemmentf
All government is an act of the understanding, will, and power.
Prudence to design belongs to the understanding; the election ofthe
means belongs to the will; and the accomplishment of the whole is
an act of power. It is a hard matter to determine which is most
necessary: wisdom stands in as much need of power to perfect, as
power doth of wisdom, to model and draw out a scheme; though
wisdom directs, power must eH`ect. Wisdom and power are distinct
things among men: a poor man in a cottage may have more pru-
dence to advise, than a privy counsellor; and a prince more power
to act, than wisdom to conduct. A pilot may direct though e be
lame, and cannot climb the masts, and spread the. sails: but God is
Wanting in nothing; neither in wisdom to dessign, nor in will to de-
termine, nor in ower to accom lish. His wi om is not feeble, nor
his power foolisli: a feeble wisdlom could notact what it would, and
a foolish power would act more than it should. The power express-
ed in his government is shadowed forth in the living creatures, which
are God’s instruments in it. It is said, “Evegy one of them had
four faces” (Ezek. i. 10); that of a man to sign' y wisdom; of alion,
eagle, the strongest amongrbirds, to signify their courage and strength
to perform their ofiices. his power is evident in the natural, moral,
gracious government. There is a natural providence, which consists
in the preservation of all things, propogation of them by corruptions
and generations, and in a co-operation with them in their motionsto
attain their ends. Moral government is of the hearts and actions Of
men. Gracious government, as respecting the Church.
First, His power is evident in natural government.
1. In preservation. God is the great Father of the world, to
nourish it as well as create it.' Man and beast would perish if there
were not herbs for their food; and herbs would wither and periSl1t
if the earth were not watered with fruitful showers. This some of
the heathens acknowledged, in their worshipping God under the
image of an ox, a useful creature, by reason of its strength, to which
we owe so much of our food in corn. Hence, God is stvled the
“ Preserver of man and beast" (Ps. xxxvi. 6). Hence, the Jewl
called God,' Place ; because he is the subsistence of all things. By
<1 Peira p. 111. ' Suarez, Vol. I. lib.   :up. 10.
' Dnille, in 1 Cor. x. p. 102. * man.

