ON 'ras Pownn or son. 45
the same word whereby he ve being to things, he gives to them
continuance and duration in¥eing so much a term of time. As they
were “created by his word,” they are supported by his word (Heb.
i. 3). The same powerful fiat, “Let the earth bring forth grass”
(Gen. i. 11), when the plants peeped upon man out of nothing, is
expresed every spring, when they begin to lift up their heads from
their naked roots and winter graves. The resurrection of light every
morninv, the reviving the pleasure of all things to the eye; the wa-
tering the valleys from the mountain springs; the curbin the natural
appetite of the waters from covering the earth; every draught that
t e beasts drink, every lodging the fowls have, every bit of food for
the sustenance of man and beast, is ascribed to the “opening of his
hand," the diffusing of his power- (Ps. civ. 27, &c.z, as much as the
first creation of things, an endowing them wit their particular
nature: whence the plants, which are so serviceable, are called “the
trees of the Lord” (ver. 16%, of Jehovah, that hath only being and
power in himseltl The w ole Psalm is but the description of his
preserving, as the 51st of Genesis is of his creating power. It is by
this power angels have so many thousand years remained in the
power of understanding and willing. By this power things distant
intheir natiues have been joined together; a spiritual soul and a
dusty body knit in a marriage knot. By this power the heavenl
bodies have for so many ages rolled in their s heres, and the tumul:
tuous elements have persisted in their order: hy this hath the matter
of the world been to this day continued, and as capable of entertain-
ing forms as it was at the Hrst creation. What an amazing sight
would it be to see a man hold a illa.r of the Exchange upon one of
his Hngers? What is this to the power of God, “who holds the
waters in the hollow of his hand, metes out the heaven with a s an,
and weighs the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance” Elsa.
xl. 12)? The preserving the earth from the violence of the sea is a
plain instance of this power." How is that raging element kept pent
within those lists where he first lodged it; continues its course in its
channel without overflowing the earth, and dashing in pieces the
lower part of the creation? The natural situation of the water is to
be above the earth, because it is lighter; and to be immediately under
the air, because it is heavier than that thinner element. Who re-
strains this natural quality of it, but that God that Hrst formed it?
The word of command at Brst, “ Hitherto shalt thou go, and no fur-
ther,” keeps those waters linked together in their den, that they may
not ravage the earth, but be useful to the inhabitants of it. And
when once it Ends a gap to enter, what power of earth can hinder its
Passage? How fruitless sometimes is all the art of man to send it
£0 its proper channel, when once it hath spread its mightv waves
ever some countries, and trampled part of the inhabited earth under
its feet? It .hath triumphed in its victory, and withstood all the
p0wer of man to conquer its force. It is only the power of God tLat
dflih bridle it from spreading itself over the whole earth. And that
his power might be more manifest, he hath set but a weak and small
ban against it. Though he hath bounded it in some places by
' Daille Melunge, Part II. p. 467.

