46 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
mighty rocks, which li& up their heads above it, yet in most place
by feeble sand. How often is it seen in every stormy motion, when
the waves boil high and roll furiously, as if they would swallow u
all the neighboring houses upon the shore; when the cometo touch
those sandy limits, they bow their heads, fall flat, and sink into the
lap whence thefy were raised, and seem to foam with anger that they
can march no urther, but must siplit themselves at so weak an ob-
stacle! Can the sand be thoug t to be the cause of this? The
weakness of it gives no footing to such a thought. Who can appre-
hend, that an enraged army should retire upon the opposition of a
straw in an infant’s hand? Is it the nature of the water? Its retire-
ment is against the natural quality of it; ur but a little upon the
ound, and you always see it spread itselli) No cause can be ren-
dered in nature; it is a standing monument of the power of God in
the preservation of the world, and ought to be more taken notice of
by us in this island, surrounded with it, than by some other countries
in the world.
(1.) We ind nothing hath power to preserve itsel£ Doth not
every creature upon earth require the assistance of some other for
its maintenance? “ Can the rush grow up without mire? can the
flag grow up without water” (Job viii. 11)? Can man or beast main-
tain itself without grain from the bowels of the earth? Would not
every man tumble into the ve, without the aid of other creatures
to nourish him? Whence ggthese creatures receive that virtue of
supplying him nourishment, but from the sun and earth? and whence
do they derive that virtue, but from the Creator of all things? And
should he but slack his hand., how soon would they and all their
qualities perish, and the links of the world fall in pieces, and dash
one another into their first chaos and confusion I All creatures in-
deed have an appetite to preserve themselves; they have some knowl-
edge of the outward means for their preservation; so have irrational
animals a natural instinct, as well as men have some skill to avoid
things that are hurtful, and apply things that are hel ful. But what
thing in the world can preserve itself by an inward) iniiux into its
own being? All things want such a power without God’s fiat, “Let
it be so :” nothing but is destitute of such a power for its own preser-
vation, as much as it is of a power for its own creation. Were there
an true power for such a work, what need of so many external
helps from things of an inferior nature to that which is preserved by
them? No created thing hath a power to preserve any decayed
being. Who can la claim to such a virtue, as to recall a withering
flower to its former beauty, to raise the head of a drooping plant, or
put life into a gasping worm when it is expiring; or put impaired
vitals into their former posture? Not a man upon earth., nor an
angel in heaven, can pretend to such a virtue; t ey ma be spec
tators, but not assisters, and are, in this case, physicians ofy no v wa
(2.) It is, therefore, the same Power preserves things which at first
created them. The creature doth as much depend u n God, in the
first instant of its being, for its preservation, as it   when it was
nothinfr, for its production and creation into being: as the continu-
ance of a thought of our mind depends upon the power of our mind:

