~ ON 'rms Powna or con. 47
Il well as the first framing of that thought! There is a little d1il`er~
ence between creating ani preserving power , as there is between the
power of mine eye to hegin an act of vision and continue that act of
vision, as to cast my eye upon an object and continue it upon that
object: as the first act is caused by the eye, so'the duration of the act
is preserved by the eye; shut the eye, and the act of vision perishes;
divert the eye from that object, and that act of vision is exchanged
for another. And, therefore, the preservation of things is commonly
called a continual creation: and certainly it is no less, if wc unuer~
stand it of a preservation by an inward influence into the being of
things It is one and the same action invariably continued, and
obtainin its force every moment; the same action whereby he
created Eiem oi nothing, and which every moment hath a virtue to
produce a thing out of nothing, if it were not yet extant in the
world: it remains the same without any diminution throughout the
whole time wherein anything doth remain in the world.y For all
things would return to nothing, if God did not keep them up in the
elevation and state to which he at Brst raised them by his creative
ppwer (Acts xvii. 28): “In him we live, and move, and have our
ing." By him, or by the same Power whence we derived our
being, are our lives maintained: as it was his Almighty Power
whereby we were, after we had been nothing, so it is the same power
whereby we now are, after he hath made us something. Certainly
all things have no less a dependence on God than light upon the
81111, which vauisheth and hides its head upon the withdrawing of the
sun. And should God suspend that werful Word, whereby he
erected the frame of the world, it would() sink down to what it was,
before he commanded it to stand up. There needs no new act of
power to reduce things to nothing, but the cessation of that Omnip-
otent influx. When the appointed time set them for their being
comes to a period, they faint and bend down their heads to their
dissolution; the return to their elements, and perish (Ps. civ. 29):
“Thou hidest fliy face, and they are troubled: thou takest away
their breath, they die, and retiun to their dust. That which was
nothing cannot remain on this side nothing, but by the same Power
that first called it out of nothing. As when God withdrew his con~
Uurring power from the fire, its quality ceased to act upon the three
children: so if he withdraws his sustaming power from the creature,
ltsiznaplre will cease to be. Tha rful d (G
_ ta pears in ro a tion. t powe wor en. i. 22,
23), “Indiease and ii;\u.liii}§;f,” pronounced at the Brst creation, hath
Spread itself over every ,part of the world; every animal in the
world, in the formation o every one of them. From two of a kind,
how great a number of individuals and single creatures have been
Inultiplied, to cover the face of the earth in their continued succes-
510118. What a world of plants spring up from the womb of a dry
earth, moistenai by the influence of a cloud, and hatched by the
beams of the sun! How adn irable an instance of his propagating
power is it_ that from a little seed a massy root should strike into
the bowels of the earth, a tall body and thick branches, with leaves
' Lenin: de Perfect. Divin. p. 69. ' Lessius de Sum. Bon. pp. 580-582.

