48 cmsmrocx ON rrrn ATTRIBUTES!
and flowers of various colors, should break through the surface of
the earth; and mount up towards heaven, when in the seed you
neither smell the scent, nor see any firmness of a tree, nor behold
any of those colors which you view in the ‘lovers that the ears pro-
duce! A power not to be imitated by aiycreature. How astonish-
ing is it, that a small seed, whereof many will not amount to the
weight of a grain, should spread itself into leaves, bark, fruit of a
vast wei ht, and multiply itself into millions of seeds! What power
is that, that from one man and woman hath multiplied families, and
from families, stocked the world with oplel e Consider the living
creatures, as formed in the womb of tfigir several kinds; every one
is a wonder of power. The Psalmist instanceth in the forming and
propagation of man (Ps. cxxxix. 14): “ I am fearfully and wonder-
ully made; marvellous are thy works." The forming of the parts
distinctly in the womb, the bringing forth into the world every par-
ticular member, is a roll of wonders, of power. That so ‘rine a
structure as the body of man should be olished in “the lower
parts of the earth,” as he calls the womb liver. 15), in so short 1.
time, with members of a various form and usefulness, each laborinv
in their several functions! Can any man give an exact account dl
the manner “ how the bones do grow in the womb" (Eccles xi. 5)?
It is unknown to the father, and no less hid from the mother, and
the wisest men cannot search out the depth of it. It is one of the
secret works of an Omni otent Power. secret in the manner, thonvh
open in the eifect. So that we must ascribe it to God, as Job dot
Thine hands have made me and fashioned me to ether roun
about” (Job x. 8). Thy hands which formed heavenguave formed
every part, every member, and wrought me like a miffhty workman.
The heavens are said to lie the “ worli of God’s hand>s,” and man is
here said to be no less. 'l‘he forming and propagation of man from
that earthy matter, is no less a wonder of power than the structure
of the world from a rude and indisposcd matter. A heathen philo-
sopher descants elegantly upon it: “ Dost thou understand (my son?
the forming of man in t e womb; who erected that noble fabric
who carved thc e es, the crystal windows of light, and the con-
ductors of the bodby; who bored the nostrils and ears, those loop-
holes of scents and sounds; who stretched out and knit the sinews
and ligaments for the fastening of every member: who cast the
hollow veins, the channels of blood; set and strengthened the bones,
the pillars and rafters of the body; who digged the pores, the sinks
to ex el the filth; who made the heart, the repository of the soul,
and fbrmed the lungs like a pipe? What mother, what father,
wrought these things? No, none but the Almighty God, who made
all things according to his pleasure; it is He who propagates this
noble piece from a fpile of dust. Who is born by his own advice;
who gives stature, eatures, sense, wit strength, speech, but God ?”'
It is no less a wonder, that a little in& nt ;an live so long in a dark
sink, in the midst of filth, without breathing; and the eduetion of
it out ofthe womb is no less a wonder than the forming, increase,
nourishment of it in that cell. A wonder, that the life of the infant
° Triurregist, in Serm. Greek, in the Temple, p. 57.

