50 cnannocx ON 'run arrnmurrs. i
tinue in being; nothing without his co-working gpuwer can exer
cise one mite of those 3ualities it is possessed ofl creatures am
wound up by him, an his hand is constantly upon them, to keep
them in perpetual motion.
(2). Consider the variety of motions in a single creature. How
many motions are there in the vital parts of a man, or in any other
animal, which a man knows not, and is unable to number! The
renewed motion of the lungs, the systoles and diastoles of the heart;
the contractions and dilations of the heart, whereby it sponts out
and takes in blood; the power of concoction in the stomach; the
motion of the blood in the veins, &c., all which were not only settled
by the Hpowerful hand of God, but are upheld by the same, preserved
and in uenced in every distinct motion by that wer that stamped
them with that nature. To every one of those thgre is not only the
sustaining power of God holding up their natures, but the motive
power of God concurring to` every motion ; for if we move in him
as well as we live in him, then every particle of our motion is exer-
cised by his concurring power, as wel as every moment of our life
supported by his preserving power. What an infinite variety! of
motions is there in the whole world in universal nature, to all W 'ch
God concurs, all which he conducts, even the motions of the meanest
as well as the greatest creatiues, which demonstrate the indefatigable
power ofthe governor! It is an Infinite Power which doth act in
so many varieties, whereby the souls forms every thought, the
tongue ,slpeaks every word, the body exerts every action. what an
Infinite ower is that which presides over the irth of all thin
concurs with the motion of the sap in the tree, rivers on the eartgil
clouds in the air, every drop of rain, fleece of snow, crack of thun-
der! Not the least motion in the world, but is under an actual in-
fluence of this Almighty Mover. And lest any should scruple the
concurrence of God to so many varieties ofthe creature’s motion, as
a thing utterly inconceivable, ct them consider the sun, a natural
image and shadow of the perfections of God; doth not the power of
that finite creature extend itself to various objects at the same mo-
ment of time? How many insects doth it animate, as flies, Src., at
the same moment throughout the world! How many several plants
doth it erect at its a pearance,in the spring, whose roots lay mourn-
ing in the earth all the foregoin winter! What multitudes of
spires of grass, and nobler flowers, dath it midwife in the same hour!
t warms the air, melts the blood, cherishes living creatures of various
kinds, in distinct places, without tiring: and shall the God of this
sun be less than his creature?
(3.) And since I Iipeak of the sun, consider the power of God in
the motion of it. e vastness of the sun is com' uted to be, at the
least, 166 times bigger than the earth, and its distance from the
earth, some tell us, to be about 4,000,000 of miles;° whence it fol-
lows, that it is whirled about the world with that swiitness, that in
the space of an hour it runs 1,000,000 of miles, which is as muchas
if it should move round about the surface of the earth fifty times in
one hour; which vastness exceeds the swiftness of apullet shot out
I A Lapide, in 1 cup. Gen. xvi Lucius, de Perfect. Divin. pp. 90, 91.

