ON ms rowna or con. 51
of a cannon, which is computed to fly not above three miles in a
minutezb so that the sun runs further in one hour’s space, than a
bullet canjn 5,000, if it were kept in motion; so that if it were near
the earth. the swittness of its motion would shatter the whole frame
of the world, and dash it in pieces; so that the Psalmist may well
say, “It runs a race like a strong man” (Ps. xix. 5). What an in~
comprehensible Power is that which hath communicated such a
strength and swiftness to the sun, and doth daily influence its mo-
tion; e§ecially since after all those years of its motion, wherein
one wo d think it should have spent itself, we behold it every day
as vigorous as Adam did in Paradise, without limping, without shat~
tering itself; or losing any thing of its natural s irits in its unwearied
motion. How great must that power be, which hath ke t this great
'body so entire, and thus swiftly moves it every day l Ig it not now
an argument of omnipotency, to keep all the strings of nature in
tune; to wind them up to a due pitch. for the harmony he intended
by them; to kee things that are contrary from thatconfiision they
would naturally gill into; to prevent those jarrin which would
naturally result from their various and snarling quailies; to preserve
every being in its true nature; to propagate every kind of creature;
order all the o erations, even the meanest of them, when there are
such innumeralxle varieties? But let us consider, that this power or
preserving things in their station and motion, and the renewing of
them, is more stu ndous than that which we commonly call mirac-
ulous We call tgibse miracles, which are wrought out of the track
of nature, and contrary to the usual stream and current of it; which
men wonder at, because they seldom see them, and hear of them as
things rarely brought forth in the world; when the truth is, there
ismore of power expressed in the ordinary station and motion of
natural causes than in those extraordinary exertings of power. Is
not more power signalized in that whirling motion of the sun every
hour forso many ages, than in the suspending of its motion one
day, as it was in the days of Joshua? hat Ere should continually
lavage and consume, and greedily swallow up every thing that is
offered to it, seems to be the effect of as admirable a power, as the
stolp£i;1g of its appetite a few moments, as in the case of the three
ch' n. Is not the rising of some small seeds from the ground,
with a multiplication of their numerous posterity, an effect of as
great a power, as our Saviour’s feeding many thousands with a few
paves, y a secret augmentation of them ?° Is not the chemical
producing so pleasant and delicious a fruit as the grapp, from a dry
earth, insipid rain, and a sour vine, as admirable a to en of Divine
power, as our Saviour’s turning water into wine? Is not the cure
of diseases by the application of a simple inconsiderable weed, or a
slight infusion, as wonderfull in itself, as the cure of it by a power-
fiil weed? What if it be naturally designed to heal; what is that
nature, who gave that nature, who maintains that nature, who con-
ducts it, co-o crates with it ? Doth it work of itself; and by its own
strength? wlliy not then equally in all, in one as well as another?
‘ Lessius, de Provideu, p. 683. Voss. de Idol. lib.   cap. 2.
° Fincher sur Act. VoL U. D. 47.

