at ` cmimock on *ms arrnraurzs.
Miracles, indeed, affect more, because they testify the immediate
olperation of God, without the concurrence of second causes; not
t at there is more of the power of God shining in them than in the
ot er.
Secondly, This power is evident in mural government.
1. In the restraint of the malicious nature of the devil. Since
Satan hath the power of an angel, and the malice of a devil, what
safety would there be for our rsons from destruction, what xcur-
ity for our goods from riHing,l>ey this invisible, potent, and envious
spirit, if his power were not restrained, and his malice curbed, by
ne more mighty than himself? How much doth he envy God the
glory of his creation; and man, the use and benct of itl How
esirous would he be, in regard of his passion, how able in regard
of his strength and subtlety, to overthrow or infect all worship, but
what was directed to himself; to manage all things according to his
lusts, t1u'n all things topsy-turvy, plague the world, burn cities,
houses, plunder us of the supports of nature, waste kingdoms, &c.;
if he were not held in a chain, as a ravenous lion, or a fizrious wild
horse, by the Creator and Governor of the worldl What remedy
could be used by man against the activity of this unseen and swid
spirit? The world could not subsist under his malice; he would
practise the same things upon all as he did uppn Job, when he had
got leave from his Governor; turn the swor of men into one an-
other’s bowels; send fire from heaven upon the fruits of the earth
and the cattle intended for the use of man; raise winds, to shake and
tear our houses upon our heads; daub our bodies with scalbs and
boils, and let all the humors in our blood loose upon us. He that
envied Adam a paradise, doth envy us the pleasure of enjoying its
out-works. If we were not destroyed by him, we should live in a
'continued vexation by spectrums and ap(paritions, aifrighting sounds
and noise, as some think the Egyptians id in~that three days’ dark-
ness: he would be alwa winnowing us, as he desired to winnow
Peter (Luke xxii. 31). but God over-masters his strength, that he
cannot move a hair's breadth beyond his tedder; not only is he un-
able to touch an upright J ob, but to lay his Hngers upon one of the
unbelieving Gadarenes forbidden and Blthy swine without special
license (Matt. viii. 31). When he is cast out of one place, he walks
“through dry places seeking rest” (Luke xi. 24), new objects for his
malicious designs,-but fin ing none, till God lets loose the reins
upon him for a new employment. Though Sata;n’s ower be gmat,
yet God suffers him not to tempt as much as _his diabolical a petite
would, but as much as Divine wisdom thinks fit; and the l)ivine
power ternpers the other’s active malice, and gives the creatine vic-
tory, where the enemy intended spoil and captivity. How much
stronger is God, than all the legions of hell; as he that holds a
“strong man” (Luke xi. 22) from effecting his purpose, testifies more
ability than his adversary l How doth he lock him up for a. “thou-
sand years” (Rev. xx. 3) in a. pound, which he cannot lea over! and
this restraint is wrought partly by blinding the devil in Ihis designs,
pa.rtly by denying him concourse to his motion; as he hindered the
active quality of the fire upon the three children, by withdrawing

