ON 'rim rownn or son. 58
his power, which was necessary to the motion of it; and his power
is as necessary for the motion of the devil, as for that of any other
creature: sometimes he makes him to confess him against his own
interest, as Apollo’s oracle confessed! And though when the devil
was cast out of the ssessed person, he publiclly owned Christ to be
the “ Hol one of (:`i)r:i” (Mark i. 24), to render im suspected by the
peo le oiy having commerce with the unclean spirits; yet this he
couiii not do without the leave and ermission of God, that the
ppwer of Christ, in stopping his mouth and imposing silence upon
'm, might be evidence ; and that it reaches to the gates of he ,as
well asto the uieting of winds and waves. This is a part of the
strength, as well as the wisdom of God, that “the deceived and the
dnelceilyer are his” (Job xii. 16): wisdom to deifeat, and power to over-
e is most malicious desi s, to his own g o _
2. In the restraint of thegrilatural corruptionryof men. Since the
impetus of original corru tion runs in the blood, conveyed down
from Adam to the veins otp all his posterity, and universally diifused
in all mankindi what wreck and havoc would it make in the world,
if it were not suppressed by this Divine ower which presides over
the hearts of men! Man is so wretched hy nature, that nothing but
what is vile and pernicious can drop from him. Man “ drinks ini-
quity like water," being, b nature, “abominable and filthy" (Job
xv. 16). He greedily swalihws all matter for iniquity, everything
suitable to the mire and poison in his nature, and would sprout it
out with all fierceness and insolence. God himself gives us the
description of man’s nature (Gen. vi. 5), that he hath not one good
imagination at any time; and the apostle from the Psalmist dilates
and comments upon it (Rom. iii. 10, &c.) “ There is none righteous;
no, not one; their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet
are swift to shed blood,” &c. This corruption is equal in all, natural
in all; it is not more poisonous or more fierce in one man, than
in another. The root of all men is the same; all the branche=
therefore do equally possess the villanous nature of the root. No
child of Adam can, y natural descent, be better than Adam, or
have less of baseness, and vileness, and venom, than Adam. How
fruitful would this loathsome lakebe in all kind of streams! What
unbridled licentiousness and headstrong fury would triumph in the
world, if the power of God did not interpose itself to lock down the
flood-gates of it! What rooting up of human society would there
be! how would the world be drenched in blood, the number of
malefactors be greater than that of a prehenders and punishersl
How would the prints of natural laws he rased out of the heart, if
God should leave human nature to itself! Who can read the first
cha ter of Romans, (verses 24 to 29), without acknowledging this
U'Il£\? where there is a catalogue of those villanies which followed
upon God’s pulling up the sluices, and letting the malignity of their
inward corruption have its natural coursel If God did not hold
back the fu ' of man, his garden would be overrun, his vine rooted
up; the inginations of men would hurry them to the worst of
wickedness. How great is that Power that curbs, bridles, or changes
‘ Caeterus deos Ceieos esse, due. Grot. Verit, Rel. lib. 4,

