54 cnamwocx ON TE .ur'1'nmU'r'Es.
as many headstrong horses at once, and every minute, as there are
sons of Adamu n the earth? The “Hoods liii; up their waves;
the Lord on highmis mightier than the noise of many waters, yea,
than the mi hty waves of the sea" (Ps. xciii. 3, 4); that doth hush
and pen in tihe turbulent passions of men.
3. In the ordering and framing the hearts of men to his own ends.
That must be an Omnipoteut hand that grasps and contains the hearts
of all men; the heart of the meanest person, as well as of the most
towering angel., and turns them as he pleases, and makes them some-
time ignorantly, sometime knowingly, concur to the accomplishment
of his own purposes! When the hearts of men are so numerous,
their thoughts so various and different &om one another, yet he hath
afkey to those millions of hearts, and with infinite power, guided by
as infinite wisdom, he draws them into what channels he pleases, for
the gaining his own ends. Though the Jews had imbrued their
hands in the blood of our Savioiu, and their rage was yet reeking-
hot against his followers, God bridled their fury in the chu.rch’s in-
fancy, till it had got some strength, and cast a. tenor upon them by
the wonders wrought by the apostles (Acts ii. 43): “ And fear came
upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the
apostles.” Was there not the same reason in the nature of the works
our Saviour wrou ht, to point them to the finger of God, and calm
their rage? Yet did not the power of God work upon their passions
in those miracles, nor stop the impetuousness of the corruption resi-
dent in their hearts. Yet now those who had the boldness to attack
the Son of God and nail him to the cross, are frighted at the appear-
ance of twelve unarmed apostles; as the sea seems to be afraid when
it approacheth the bounds of the feeble sand. How did God bend
the hearts of the Egyptians to the Israelites, and turn them to that
point, as to lend their most costly vessels, their recious gewels, and
rich garments, to supply those whom they hadp just be ore tyrani-
cally loaded with their chains (Exod. iii. 21, 22)l When a great
part of an army came upon J ehoshaphat, to dispatch him into another
world, how doth God, ln a triee, touch their hearts, and move them,
by a secret instinct, at once to depart from him (1 Chron. xviii. 31)l
as if you should see a numerous sight of birds in a moment turn
wing another way, by a sudden and joint consent. When he gave
Sau a kingdom, he gave him a. spirit tit for government, “and gave
him another heart” (1 Sam. x. 9); and brought the ple to submit
to his yoke, who, a little before, wandered about till?) land upon no
nobler employment than the seeking of asses. It is no small remark;
ofthe power of God, to make a number of strong and discontentedw
persons, and' desirous enough of liberty, to bend their necks under
the yoke of government, and submit to the authority of one, and.
that of their own nature, often weaker and unwiser than the most ofgl
them, and many times an op ressor and invader of their righissi
Upon this account David calls 5-od “his fortress, tower, shield” (Pal
cxliv. 2); all terms of stren th in sdbduing the people under himtf
It is the m' hty hand of God that links princes and people ether
in the bands of government. The same hand that the
waves of the sea, suppresseth the tumults of the people.

