ON 'mn POWER or son. 55
Tlzirdly, It appeals in his gracz`¢ru.s and judicial government
1. In his gracious government. In the deliverance of hischurch:
he is the “strength of Israel" (1 Sam. xv. 29), and hath protected
his little Bock in the midst of wolves; and maintained their stand
ing, when the strongest kingdoms have sunk, and the best jointed
states have been broken in pieces; when judgments have ravaged
countries, and torn up the mighty, as a tempestuous wind hath oiten
done the tallest trees, which seemed to threaten heaven with their
tops, and dare the storm with the depth of their roots, when yet the
vine and rose-bushes have stood Brm, and been seen in their beauty
next morning. The state of the church hath outlived the most
iloiuishing monarchies, when there hath been a mighty knot of ad-
versaries against her; when the bulls of Bashan have pushed her,
and the whole tribe of the dragon have sharpened their weapons,
and edged their malice; when the voice was strong, and the hopes
high to rase her foundation even with the ground; when hell hath
roared; when the wit of the world hath contrived, and the strength
of the world hath attempted her ruin; when decrees have been
passed inst her, and the ,owers of the world armed for the exe-
cution dgihem ; when her fiiiends have drooped and skulked in cor-
ners; when there was no eye to pity, and no hand to assist, help
hath come from heaven; her enemies have been defeated; kings
have brought   to her, and reared her; tears have been wiped ofi
her cheeks, an her very enemies, by an unseen power, have been
formed to court her whom before they would have devoured quick.
The devil and his armies have sneaked into their den, and the church
hath trium hed when she hath been u n the brink of the grave.
Thus did (iiod send a mighty angel to be) the executioner of Senna~
cherib’s army, and the protector of Jerusalem, who run his sword
into the hearts of eighty thousand (2 Kings xix. 35), when they were
ready to swallow up his beloved cix Vhen the knife was at the
throats of the Jews, in Shushan (Es er viii), by a powerful hand it
wasturned into the hearts of their enemies. With what an out~
stretched arm were the Israelites freed from the Egyptian yoke (Dent.
iv. 34)I \Vhen Pharaoh had mustered a great army to pursue them,”
amisted with six hundred chariots of war, the Red Sea obstructed
their passa e before, and an enraged enemy trod on their rear; when
the fearfuldsraelit/es despaired of deliverance, and the insolent E -
tian assured himself of his revenge, God stretches out his irresis1iilil)e
ami to defeat the enemy, and assist his people; he strikes down the
wolves, and preserves the Bock. God restrained the Egypgian en-
mity against the Israelites till they were at the brink ofthe ed Sea.,
and then lets them follow their humor, and pursue the fiigitives, that
hispower might more gloriously shine forth in the de iverance of
the one, and the destruction of t e other. God might have brought
Israel out of Egypt in the time of those kings that had remembered
the good service of Joseph to their country, but he leaves them till
the reign of a cruel tyrant, suffers them to be slaves, that they might
by his sole power, be conquerors, which had had no appearance had
there been a willin dismission of them at the first summons (Exod.
ix. 16); “In very deed for this cause have I raised thee up, for to

