56 cmrmocx ON :mn xrrnrnurss.
shew my power, and that my name might be declared throughout
all the earth. I have permitted thee to rise up against my people,
and keep them in captivity, that thou mightest be an occasion tbr the
manifestation of my power in their rescue ; and whilst thou art ob~
stinate to enslave them, I will stretch out m arm to deliver them,
and make my name famous among the Gentilies, in the wreck of thee
and thy host in the Red Sea. The deliverance of the church hath
not been in one age, or in one part of the world, but God hath sig-
nalized his power in all kingdoms where she hath had a footing: as
he hath guided her in all laces by one rule, animated her bv one
spirit, so he hath protected)her by the same arm of power. When
the Roman emperors bandied all their force against her, for about
three hundred years, they were further from eiiecting her ruin at the
end than when they first attempted it; the church grew under their
sword, and was hatched under the wings ofthe Roman eagle, which
were spread to destroy her The ark was elevated b the deluge,
and the waters the devil poiired out to drown her did lint slime the
earth for a new increase of her. She hath sometimes been beaten
down, and, like Lazarus, hath seemed to be in the grave for some
days, that the dpower of God might be more visible in her sudden re-
surrection, an lifting up her head above the throne of her persecu-
tors.
2. In his judicial proceedings. The delu e was no small testimo-
ny of his power, in opening the cisterns of Iieaven, and pulling up
the sluices of the sea. He doth but call for the waters of the sea,
and they “pour themselves upon the face of the earth” (Amos ix. 61)
In forty days’ time the waters overtopped the highest mountains ii -
teen cubits (Gen. vii. 17-20) ; and by the same power he afterwards
reduced the sea to its proper channel, as a roaring lion into his den.
A shower of fire from heaven, upon Sodom, and the cities of the
plain, was a signal display of his power, either in creating it on the
sudden, for the execution of his righteous sentence, or sending down
the element of fire, contrary to its nature, which affects ascent, for
the punishment of rebels against the light of nature. How often
hath he ruined the most flourishing monarchies, led princes away
spoiled, and overthrown the mighty, which Job makes an argument
of his strerggth (Job xii. 13, 112; Troops of unknown peo le, the
Goths and andals, broke the mans, a warlike le, and) hurled
down all before them. The could not have had thzoiliought to suc-
ceed in such an attempt, unless God had given them strength and
motion for the executmg his judicial vengeance upon the ple of
his wrath. How did he evidence his power, by daubing thgot roue
of Pharaoh, and his chamber of presence, as well as the houses of
his subjects, with the slime of frogs (Exod. viii. 3); turning their
waters into blood, and their dust into biting lice (Exod. vii. 20)§
raising his militia of locusts against them; causing a three days’
darkness without stopping the motion of the sun; taking off their
first-born, the excellenc of their strength, in a ni ht, by the stroke
of the angel’s sword! lie takes off the chariot wieels of Pharaoh,
and presents him with a destruction where he ex ected a victory;
brings those waves over the heads of him and his host, which stood

