ON rm; Powsn or con. T 5?
iirm as marble walls for the safety of his people; the sea is made to
swallow them up, that durst not, by the order of their Governor,
touch the Israelites: it only sprinkled the one as a type of baptism,
and drowned the other as an image of hell. Thus he made it both,
a deliverer and a revenger, the instrument of an offensive and de-
fensive war glsa. xl. 23, 24); “He brings princes to nothing, and
makes the ju ges ofthe eart as vanity.” Great monarchs have, by
his power, been hurled from their thrones and their sceptres, like
Venice-glasses, broken before their faces, and they been advanced
that have had the least hopes of grandeur. He hath plucked up ce-
dars b the roots, lopped off the branches, and set a shrub to grow
up in the place; disso ved rocks, and established bubbles (Lu e i.
52): “He hath showed strength with his arm ; he hath scattered the
proud in the imagination of their hearts; he hath dput down the
mighty from their seat, and exalted them of low egree."-And
these things he doth magnify his power in :- ‘
(L) By ordering the nature of creatures as he pleases. By re-
straining their force, or guiding their motions. The restraint of the
destructive qualities of the creatures argues as great a ower as the
change of their natures, yea, and a greater. The quaiities of crea-
tures may be changed by art and composition, as in the pre aring of
medicines; but what but a Divine Power could restrain tliie opera-
tion of the fire from the three children, while it retained its heat and
burning quality in Nebuchadnezzafs furnace? The operation was
curbed while its nature was preserved. All creatures are called his
host, because he marshals and ranks them as an army to serve his
plggxmes. The whole scheme of nature is ready to favor men when
G orders it, and ready to imish men when God commissions it.
He gave the Red Sea but a clieck, and it obeyed his voicefPs. cvi.
9); “ He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up ;” the mo-
tion of it ceased, and the waters of it were ranged as defensive walls,
to secure the march of his eople: and at the motion of the hand of
Moses, the servant of the liord, the sea recovered its violence, and
the walls that were framed came tumbling down upon the E p-
tian’s heads (Exod. xiv. 27). The Creator of nature is not ledy by
the necessity of nature: he that settled the order of nature, can
change or restrain the order of nature according to his sovereign
pleasure. The most necessary and useful creatures he can use as in-
struments of his vengeance: water is necessary to cleanse, and by
that he can deface a world ; Ere is necessary to warm, and by that
he can burn a Sodom: from the water he tbrrned the fowl ggien. i.
21), and by that he dissolves them in the deluge; Hre or eat is
necessary to the generation of creatures, and by that he ruins the
cities of the plain. He orders all as he pleases, to perform every
tittle and punctilio of his urpose. The sea observed him so exactly,
that it drowneni not one lgraelite, nor saved one Egyptian (Ps. cvi.
ll). There was not one of them left. And to perfect the Israelites’
deiverance, he followed them with testimonies of his power above
the strength of nature. When they wanted drink, he orders Moses
£0 strike a rock, and the rock spouts a river, and a channel is formed
for it to attendthem in their journey. When they wanted bread, hg

