58 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
dressed manna for them in the heavens, and sent it to their tables in
the desert. When he would declare his strength, he calls to the
heavens to pour down ` hteousness, and to the earth to bring forth
salvation (Isa. xlv. 8).n§[‘hou h God had created righteousness or
deliverance for the Jews in Bai lon, yet he calls to the heavens and
the earth to be assistant to the dvesign of Cyrus, whom he had raised
for that purgose, as he speaks in the beginning of the chzpter (verses
1-4). As od created man for a supernatural end, and l creatures
for man as their immediate end, so he makes them, according to op-
portunities, subservient to that supernatural end of man, for which
e created him. He that spans the heavens with his Est, can shoot
all creatures like an arrow, to hit what mark he pleases. He that
spread the heavens and the earth by a word, and can b a word fold
t em u more easil than a man can a garment (Heb i. 12), can
order the streams ofy nature; cannot he work without nature as well
as with it, beyond nature, contrary to nature, that can, as it were,
Hllip natlue with his finger into that nothing whence he drew it;
who can cast down the sun from his throne, cla the distinguished
parts of the world together, and make them march in the same order
to their confusion, as they did in their creation: who can jumble the
whole frame together, and, by a word, dissolve the pillars of the
world, and make the fabric lie in a. ruinous heap?
(2.) In effecting his purposes by small means: in making use of
the meanest creat1u‘es. As the power of God is seen in the creation
of the smallest creatures, and assembling so many perfections in the
little body of an insect, as an ant, or spider, so his power is not less
magnifie in the use he makes of -them. As he magnifies his wis~
dom, by using ignorant instruments, so he exalts his power, by em-
ploying weak instruments in his service: the meanness and imper-
ection of the matter sets off the excellency of the Workman; so the
weaknws of the instrument is no foil to the power of the principal
Agent. When God hath effected things by means in the Scripture,
he hath usually brought about his purposes by weak instruments.
Moses, a fugitive from Egypt, and Aaron a captive in it, are the in-
struments of the Israelites deliverance. By the motion of Moses’
rod, he works wonders in the court of Pharaoh, and summons up his
judgments against him. He brought down Pharaoh’s stomach for a
while, by a squadron of lice and locusts, wherein Divine power was
more seen, than if Moses had brought him to his own articles by a
multitude of warlike troops. The fall of the walls of Jericho by
the sound of rams’ horns, was a more glorious character of Gods
power, than if Joshua had battered it down with a hundredof war-
`ke engines (Josh vi. 20). Thus the great army of the Midianites,
which lay as grasshoppers upon the ground, were routed by Gideon
in the head o three hundred men; and Goliath, a. giant, laid level
with the ground by David, a stripling, by the force of a sling: a
thousand Philistines dispatched out of the world by the jaw-bone of
an ass in the hand of Samson. He can master a stout nation by an
army of locusts, and render the teeth of those little insects as de-
structive as the teeth, ea, the strongest teeth, the cheek-teeth, of a
great lion (Joel i. 6,   The thunderbolt, which produces some-

