. ON rrrs rownn or con. 59
times dreadful e&'ects, is compacted of little atoms which fly in the
air, small vapors drawn trrép by the sun, and mixed with other sul
phurous matter and pe ` ying juice. Nothin is so weak, but his
strength can make v1ctorious; nothing so srmil, but by his power
he can accomplish his great_ ends by it; nc thing so vile, but his
might can con uct to his glory; and no nation so mighty, but he
can waste and enfeeble by the meanest creatures. God is great in
power in the greatest things, and not little in the smallest; his power
m the minutest creatrues which he uses for his service, surmounts
the force of our understanding.
TEEERDLY. The power of God appears in REDEMPTION. As our
Saviour is called t e Wisdom of od, so he is called the Power of
God (1 Cor. i. 24). The arm of Power was lifted up as high as the
desi s of Wisdom were laid deep: as this way of redem tion could
not iz contrived but lg;-aan Infinite Wisdom, so it couldp not be ac-
complished but by an nite Power. None but God could shape
such a design, and none but God could effect it. The Divine Power
intemporal deliverances, and freedom from the slavery of human
oppressors, vails to that which glitters in redemption; whereby the
devil is defeated in his designs, stripped of his spoils, and yoked in
his strength. The power o God in creation requires not those de-
grees of admiration, as in redemption. In creation, the world was
erected from nothing; as there was nothing to act, so there was
nothing to oppose; no victorious devil was in that to be subdued;
no thundering law to be silenced; no death to be conquered; no
transgression to be pardoned and rooted out; no hell to be shut; no
iginominious death upon the cross to be suffered. It had been, in
e nature of the thing, an easier thing to Divine Power to have
created a new world than repaired a broken, and urined a olluted
one. This is the most admirable work that ever IGod brouglmt forth
inthe world, greater than all the marks of hispower in the first creation.
And this will appear, I. In the Person redeeming. II. In the
publication and propagation of the doctrine of redemption. III. In
the a plication of redemption. -
I. In the Person redeeming. First, In his concepltion.
1. He was conceived by the Holy Ghost in t e womb of the
Virgin (Luke i. 35g “The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and
the power of the ighest shall overshadow thee 1” which act is ex-
pressed to be the effect of the infinite power of God; and it ex-
presses the supernatural manner of the forming the humanity of
our Saviour, and si ities not the Divine nature of Christ infusing
itself into the wominof the virgin; for the angel refers it to the
manner of the o eration of the Holy Ghost in the producing the
human nature oi) Christ, and not to the nature assuming that hu-
manity into union with itself The Holy Ghost, or the Third Per-
son in the Trinity, overshadowed the vtggin, and bas creative act
named the humanity of Christ, and uni it to the `vinity. It is,
therefore, ex ressed by a word of the same import with that used in
Gen. i. 2, “ The Spirit moved upon the face of the waters,” which
signifies (as it were) a brooding upon the chaos, shadowing it with
his wings, as hens sit upon their eggs, to form them and hatch them

