60 crnumocx ON 'nm ATTRIBUTES.
into animals; or else it is an allusion to the “ cloud which covered
the tent of the congregation, when the glory of the Lord filled the
vtabernacle” (Exod. xl. 34). It was not such a creative act as we call
immediate, which is a production out of nothing; but a mediate
creation, such as God’s bringing thin into form out of the first
matter, which had nothing but an obediential or passive disposition
to whatsoever stam the powerful wisdom of God should imprint
upon it. So the substance of the Virgin had no active, but onl a
passive disposition to this work: the matter of the bod was earthy,
the substance of the virgin; the forming of it was heavenly, the
Holy Ghost workin upon that matter. And therefore when it is
said, that “she was found with child of the Holy Ghost” (Matt. i. 18),
it is to be understood of the emcacy of the Holy Ghost, not of the
substance of the Holy Ghost. The matter was natural, but the man-
ner of conceiving was in a supernatural way, above the methods of
nature. In reference to the active principle the Redeemer is called
in the prophecy (Isa. iv. 2), “The branch of the Lord,” in regard of
the Divine hand that planted him: in respect to the assive princi-
ple, the fruit of the earth, in regard ofthe womb that hare him; and
therefore said to be “ made of a woman" (Gal. iv. 4% That part cf
the Hesh of the virgin whereof the human nature of hrist was made,
was refined and puriied from corruption by the overshadowing of
the Holy Ghost, as a skilful Workman separates the dross from the
gold: our Saviour is therefore called, “ that holy thing" (Luke i. 35),
though born of the virgin: he was necessarily some way to descend
from Adam. God, indeed might have created his body out of
nothin , or have formed it (as he did Adam’s) out of the dust of the
grounfz but had he been thus extraordinarily formed, and not pro-
agatcd from Adam, though he had been a man like one of us, yet
he would not have been of kin to us, because it would not have been
a nature derived from Adam, the common parent of us all. It was
therefore necessary to an atlinity with us, not only that he should
have the same human nature, but that it should flow from the same
principle, and be propagated to _him.°= But now, by this way of
producing the humanity of Christ of the substance of the virgin, he
was in Adam (say some) corporally, but not seminally; of the sub-
stance of Adam, ora daughter of Adam, but not of the seed of Adam:
and so he is of the same nature that had sinned, and so what he did
and suffered may be imputed to us; which, had he been created as
Adam, could not -be claimed in a legal and judicial way.
2. It was not convenient he should be born in the common order
of nature, of father and mother: for whosoeveris so born is polluted.
“A clean thing cannot be brought out of an unclean” (Job   4).
And our Saviour had been incapable of bein a redeemer, had he
been tainted with the least spot of our nature, but would have stood
in need of redemption himselfl Besides, it had been inconsistent
with the holiness of the Divine nature, to have assumed a tainted
and denied body. He that was the fountain of blessedness to all
nations, was not to be subject to the curse of the law for himself;
which he would have been, had he been conceived in an ordinary
~ l Amyrald. in Sy nbol. p. 108. tic.

