9
~ ON 'ras POWER or con. 61
way. He that was to overturn the devil’s empire, was not to be any
way captive under the devil’s power, as a creatine under the curse;
nor could he be able to break t e serpent’s head, had he been tainted
with the serpent’s breath. Again, supposing that Almighty God by
his divine power had so ordered the matter, and so perfectly sanc-
tified an earthly father and mother from all original spot, that the
human nature might have been transmitted immaculate to him, as
well as the Holy Ghost did purge that part of the flesh of the virgin
of which the bod of Christ was made, yet it was not convenient
that that person, that was God blessed for ever as well as man, par-
taking of our nature, should have a conception in the same manner
as ours, but different, and in some measure conformable to the in-
iinite digngy of his person: which could not have been, had not a
supernatur power and a Divine person been concerned as an active
plnsnciple in it; besides, such a birth had not been agreeable to the
t promise, which calls him “the Seed of the woman” (Gen. i. 15),
not of the man; and so the veracit of God had suifered some detri-
ment: the Seed of the woman onliy is set in opposition to the seed
of the ser nt.
3. By this manner of conception the holiness of his nature is se-
cured, and his fitness for his oliice is atsured to us. It is now a pure
and unpolluted humanit that is the temple and tabernacle of the
Divinity: the fulness ofy the Godhead dwells in him bodily, and
dwells in him holily. His humanity is supernaturalized and elevated
by the activit of the Holy Ghost, hatchmg the flesh of the virgin
into man, as the chaos into a world. Thou h we read of some sanc-
tilied from the womb, it was not a pure am? perfect holiness; it was
like the light of fire mixed with smoke, an infused holiness accom-
panied with a natural taint: but the holiness of the Redeemer by this
conception, is like the light of the sun, fpure, and without spot. The
Spirit of holiness sup lying the place o a father in the way of crea-
tion. His ntness forgns ofhce is also assured to us; for being born
of the virgin, one of our nature, but conceived by the Spirit of a
Divine person, the guilt of our sins may be imputed to him because
of om' nature, without the stain of sin inherent in him; because of
his supernatural conception he is capable, as one of kin to us, to bear
our cluse without being touched by our taint. By this means our
Sinful nature is assumed without sm in that nature which was as-
sumed b f him: “ Hesh he hath, but not sinful flesh” §Rom.   3).
Real llesli, but not really sinful, only by way of imputation. Nothing
but the wer of God is evident in this whole work: by ordinary
laws anmfiihe course of nature a virgin could not bear a son: nothing
but a su rnatural and almighty grace could intervene to make so
holy anti” perfect a conjunction. The generation of others, in an
ordmar way, ‘s by male and female: but the virgin is overshadowed
by the Spirit and power of the Highest!" Man only is the roduct
0f_ natural generation; this which is born of the virgin is the holy
thing, the Son of God. In other generations, a rationa.1 soul is only
United to a material body: but in this, the Divine nature is united
with the human in one person by an indissoluble union.
_ f Amyrant. sur Timole, p. 292. _

