»
62 crunuocx on 'rim srrnmurns.
The &ond act oi ppwer in the person redeeming, is the union ot
the two natures, the ivine and human. The designing indeed of
this was an act of wisdom; but the accomplishing it was an act of
ower.
P 1. There is in this redeeming person a union of two natures. He
is God and man in one (person ( eb. i. 8, 9). “ Thy throne, O God,
is for ever and ever: od, even thy God, hath anointed thee with
the oil of gladness," &c. The Son is called God, having a throne for
ever and ever, and the unction speaks him man: the Godhead can-
not be anointed, nor hath any fe ows. Humanity and   are
ascribed to him (Rom. i. 3, 4). “He was of the seed of Davi ac-
cording to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God, by his resur~
rection from the dead.” The Divinity and humanity are both pro-
phetically joined (Zech. xii. 10), “I will gpm out my Spirit;" the
pouring forth the Spirit is an act only of ivine grace and power.
“And they shall look uémn me whom they have pierced ;” the same
ggrsou pours forth the Jpirit as God, and is pierced as man. “ The
ord was made flesh” ( ohn i. 14). Word rn eternity was made
gegh in time; Word and Besh in one person; a great God, and a
'tt e infant. »
2. The terms of this union were infinitely distant. What greater
distance can there be than between the Deity and humanity, between
the Creator and a creature? Can you imagine the distance between
eternity and time, Inhnite Power and miserable inirmity, an immor-
tal spirit and dyin flesh, the highest Being and nothingl? yet these
are espoused. A god of unmixed ble ess is linke personally
with a man of perpetual sorrows: life incapable to die, joined to a
body in that economy incapable to livifvithout dying first; infinite
purity, and a reputed sinner; etern blessedne  with a cursed
nature, Almightiness and weakness, omniscience and ignorance, im-
mutability and changeableness, incomprehensibleness and compre-
hensibility; that which cannot be comprehended, and that which
can be comprehended; that which is entirely inde endent, and that
which is totally dependent; the Creator forming all things, and the
creature made, met together to a personal union; “ The word made
flesh” (John i. 14), the eternal Son, the “Seed of Abraham” (Heb.
  16). What more miraculous, than for God to become man, and
man to become God? That a person possessed of all the perfections
of the Godhead, should inherit all the imperfections of the manhood
in one person, sin only exce ted: a holiness incapable of sinning to
be made sin; God blessed iorever, taking the properties of human
nature, and human nature admitted 'to a union with the properties
ofthe Creator: the fulness of the Deity, and the em tiness of man
united together (Col.   9); not by a shining of the Deity upon the
humanity, as the light of the sun upon the earth, but b an inhabi-
tation or indwelling of the Deity in the humanity. Wi-is there not
need of an Infinite Power to bring together terms so far asunder, to
elevate the humanity to be ca ble of; and dislpoeed for, a conjunc-
tion with the Deity If a. clodaof earth shoul be advanced to and
united with the bod of the sun, such an advance would evidence
itself to be a work 0; Almighty power: the clod hath nothing in its

