ON mn Powna or con. 63
own nature to render it so lorious, no power to climb up to so hi h
adignity: how little would such a union be, to that we are speai-
ing of! Nothing less than an Incomdprehensible Power could effect
what an Incomprehensible Wisdom id project in this affair.
3. Especially since the union is so strait. It is not such a union
as is between a man and his house he dwells in, whence he goes out
andto which he returns, without any alteration of himself or his
house; nor such a union as is between a man and his garment. which
both communicate and receive warmth from one another ; nor such
as is between an artificer and his instrument wherewith he works;
nor such a union as one friend hath with another: all these are dis-
tant thin not one in nature, but have distinct substances. Two
friends, t&ugh united b love, are distinct persons; a man and his
clothes, an artificer and his instruments, have distinct snbsistoncies;
but the humanity of Christ hath no subsistence, but in the person of
Christ The straitness of this union is expressed, and may be some-
what conceived, by the union of fire with iron ; “ the pierceth
through all the parts of iron, it unites itself with every particle, be-
stows a light, heat, purity, upon all of it; you cannot distinguish
the iron fromthe fire, or the fire from the iron, et they are distinct
natures; so the Deit is united to the whole humanity, seasons it,
and bestows an exceldiency upon it, yet the natures still remain dis-
tinct. And as durin that union o fire with iron, the iron is inca
pable of rust or blacgness, so is the humanity incapable of sin : and
as the operation of 'mire is attributed to the red-hot iron (as the iron
maybe said to heat, burn, and the fire may be said to cut and
pierce), yet the imperfections ofthe iron do not affect the ire; so in
this mystery, those things which belong to the Divinity are ascribed
tothe humanity, and those things which belong to t e humanity,
are ascribed to the Divinity, in regard of the person in whom those
natures are united: yet the imperfections of the humanity do not
hurt the Divinity.”s The Divimty of Christ is as really united with
the humanity, as the soul with the body ; the person was one,
though the natures were two; so united, that the sufferings of the
human nature were the sufferings of that person, and the dignity of
the Divine was imputed to the human, by reason of that unity of
both in one person; hence the blood of the human nature is said to
bethe “blood of God” (Acts xx. 28). All things ascribed to the
Son of God, may be ascribed to this man ; and the things ascribed
to this man, may be ascribed to the Son of God, as this man is the
Son of God, eternal, Almighty; and it may be said, “God suffered,
was crucified,” &c., for the person of Christ is but one, most simple;
the person suffered, that was God and Man united, making one per-
son.h
4. And though the union be so strait, yet without confusion of
the natures, or change of them into one another. The two natures
of Christ are not mixed, as liquors that incorporate with one another
when they are poured into a vessel; the Divine nature is not :rarned
into the human, nor the human into the Divine; one nature doth
not swallow up another, and make a third nature distinct from each
U Leliul de Perf. Divin. lib. xii. cap. 4. p. 104. * Leuiue, pp. tftt, 104.

