M CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
of them.' The Deity is not` turned into the humanity, as air (which
is next to a spirit) may be thickened and turned into water, and
water may be rariiied into air by the power of heat boiling it. The
Deity cannot be changed, because the nature of it is to be unchange-
able ; it would not be Deity, if it were mortal and capable of suffer-
ing. The humanity is not changed into the Deity, or then Christ
could not have been a sufferer; if the humanity had been swallowed
up into the Deity, it had lost its own distinct nature, and put on_the
nature oi' the Deity, and, consequently, been incapable of suffering;
Hnite can never, b any mixture, be changed into infinite, nor in-
finite into finite. This union, in this regard, may be resembled to
the union of light and air, which are strictly joined; for the lirfht
passes through all parts of the air, but they are not confounded, but
remain in their distinct essences as before the union, without the
least confusion with one another. The Divine nature remains as it
was before the union, entire in itself; only the Divine person as-
sumes another nature to himself* The human nature remains, as
it would have done, had it existed separately from the Aéyag, except
that then it would have had a proper subsistence by itself, which
now it borrows from its union wit the Aéyng, or, word; but that
doth not belong to the constitution of its nature. Now let us con-
sider, what a wonder of power is all this: the knitting a noble soul
to a body of clay, was not so great an exploit of Almightiness, as
the espousing infinite and finite together. Man is further distant
from God, than man from nothing. What a wonder is it, that two
natures infinitely distant, should be more intimately united than
anything in the world; and yet without any confusion! that the
same person should have both a glory and a grief ; an infinite joy
in the Deity, and an inexpressible sorrow in the humanity! That
a God upon a throne should be an infant in a cradle ; the thunder-
ing Creator be a weeping babe and a suffering man, are such ex-
pressions of mighty power, as well as condescending love, that they
astonish men upon earth, and angels in heaven.
Thirdly, Power was evident in the progress of his life; in the
miracles he wrought. How often did he expel malicious and power-
ful devils from their habitations; hurl them from their thrones, and
make them 'fall from heaven like lightning! How many wonders
were wrought by his bare word, or a single touch ! Sight restored
to the blind, and hearing to the deaf ; palsy members restored to
the exercise of their functions; a dismiss given to many deplorable
maladies; impure leprosies chased from the persons they had in-_
fected, and bodies beginning to putrefy raised from the grave. But
the mightiest argument of power was his patience; that He who
was, in his Divine nature, elevated above the world, should so long
continue upon a dun ghill, endure the contradiction of sinners against
himself, be patiently subject to the reproachesand indignities of
men, with<_»u_L displaying that justice which was essential to the
Deity; and, in especial manner, daily merited by their provoking
crimes. The patience of man under great aftronts, is a greaterargu-
ument of power, than the brawniness of his arm; a strength employ-
* Lcssius pp. 103, 104 Amyi-ald. Ireuic. p. 284. \‘ Amyrald. Irenic. p. 282.

