~ ON 'ran Powna or oon. ~ 65
ed in the revenge of every injury, signihes a greater iniirmity in the
soul, than there can be ability in the body.
Fourthly, Divine power was apparent in his resurrection. The
unlocking the belly of the whale or the deliverance of Jonas; the
rescue of Daniel from the den of lions; and the restraining the fire
from burning the three children, were signal declarations of his
power, and types of the resurrection of our Saviour. But what are
,those to that which was represented by them? That was a power
over nat1u°al causes, a curbing of beasts, and restraining of elements;
but in the resurrection of Christ, God exercised a power over him-
selt and quenched the flames of his own wrath, hotter than .millions
of Nebuchadnezzar’s furnaces; unlocked the prison doors, wherein
the curses of the law had lodged our Saviour, stronger than the belly
and ribs of a leviathan. In the rescue of Daniel and Jonas, God
overpowered beasts; and in this tore up the strength of the old ser-
Ept, and plucked the sceptre from the hand of the enemy of man-.
' d. The work of resurrection, indeed, considered in itself; re-
quires the etiicacy of an Almighgy power; neither man nor angel
can create new dispositions in a ead body, to render it capable of
lodging a spiritual soul; nor can the restore a dislodged soul, by
their own power, to such a body. The restoring a dead body to
life requires an infinite power, as well as the creation of the world;
but there was in the resurrection of Christ, somethin more difficult
than this; while he lay in the grave he was under tie curse of the
law, under the execution of that dreadful sentence, “Thou shalt die
the death.” His resurrection was not only the re-tying the marriage
knot between his soul and body, or the rolling the stone from the
gave; but a taking off an infinite weight, the sin of mankind, which
y upon him. So vast a weight coul not be removed without the
strength of an Almighty arm. It is, therefore, not to an ordinary
operation, but an operation with power (Rom. i. 4), and such a ower
Wherein the glor of the Father. did a pear (Rom. vi. fig; “ §sised
up from the dead by the lory of the gather,” that is, t e glorious
power of God. As the ]§ternal generation is stupendous, so is his
resurrection, which is called, a new begettin of him (Acts xiii. 33).
lt is a wonder of power, that the Divine and human nature should
be joined; and no less wonder that his person should surmount and
rise up from the curse of God, under which he lay. The apostle,
therefore, adds one expression to another, and heaps up a variety,
signifying thereby that one was not enough to represent it (Eph. i.
lil); “Exceeding greatness of power, and working of mighty power,
which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead.”
It was an hyperbole of power, the excellency of the mightiness of
his strength: the loftiness of tl1e expressions seems to come short of
the apprehension he had of it in his soul.
ll. l‘his power appears in the publication and propagation of the
doctrine ot" redemption. The Divine power will appear, if you con-
sider, 1. The nature of the doctrine. 2. The instruments employed
ID it. 3. The means they used to propagate it. 4. The success
they had.
1. 'l`he nature of the doctrine. (1.) It was contary to the common
VOL. lI.1V.

