66 cmaivocx ON rim .urr1uBU'r_r-:s.
received reason of the world. The philosphers, the masters of
knowledge among the Gentiles, had maxims of a different stamp
from it. Though they agreed in the bein of a God, yet their no-
tions of his nature were confused and emdiroiled with man errors;
the unit of God was not commonly assented unto; they lirad mul-
ti lied dieities according to the fancies they had received from some
oi) a more elevated wit and reined brain. than others. Though they
had some notion of 'med.iators, yet they placed in those seats their
public benefactors, men that had been useful to the world, or their
particular countries, in im arting to them some profitable invention.
Fo discard those, was to cigar e themselves with ingratitude to them,
from whom they had received signal benefits, and to whose media-
tion, conduct, or protection, they ascribed all the success they had
been blessed with in their several rovinces, and to charge them-
selves with folly for rendering an honor and worship to them so
long. Could the doctrine of a crucified Mediator, whom they had
never seen, that had conquered no country for them, never en arged
their territories, brought to light no new profitable invention for the
increase of their earthly welfare, as the rest had done, be thought
sutlicient to balance so man of their reputed heroes? How igno-
rant were they in the foundations of the true religion l The belief
of a Providence was staggering; nor had they a true prospect of the
nature of virtue and vice; yet they had a fond pipinion of the
strength of their own reason, and the maxima that ha been handed
down to them by their predecessors, which Paul (1 Tim. vi. 20) en-
titles, a “ science falsely so called,” either meant of the philosophers
or the Gnostics. They presumed that they were able to measure all
things by their own reason; whence, when the apostle came to
preach the doctrine of the Gospel at Athens, the great school of
reason in that age, they gave him no better a title than that of a
babbler (Acts xvii. 18), and openly mocked him (ver. 32% a seed
gatherer,l one that hath no more brain or sense than a fe low that
gathers up seeds that are spilled in a market, or one that hath a vain
and empty soimd, without sense or reason, like a foolish mounte-
bank; so slightly did those rationalists of the world think of the
wisdom of heaven. That the Son of God should veil himself in a
mortal body, and suffer a' disgraceful death in it, were things above
the ken of reason. Besides, the world had a general disesteem of
the religion of the Jews, and were prejudiced against anything that
came from them; whence the Romans, that used to incorporate the
ods of other conquered nations in their capital, never moved to
have the God of Israel worshippled among them. Again, they might
argue against it with much Hes y reason: here is a crucified G0‘l1
preached by a company of mean and ignorant persons, what reason
can we have to entertain this doctrine, since the Jews, who, as they
tell us, had the prophecies of him, did not acknowled e him? Sure'
ly, had there been such predictions, they would not have crucined,
but crowned their King, and expected rom him the conquest ofthe
earth under their power. What reason have we to entertain him,
whom his own nation, among whom he lived, with whom he con~
| Efreqpoléyof.

