68 cmnnocir ON rrm nrnmvrns.
wisest nation, slighted it as foolish; the Jews, the religious nation,
stumbled at it, as contrary to the received interpretations of ancient
prophecies and carnal conceits of an earthly glory. The dimmest
eye may behold the difficulty to change custom, a second nature:
it is as hard as to change a wolf into a lamb, to level a mountain,
stop the course of the sun, or change the inhabitants of Africa into
the color of Euro e. Custom dips men in as diuable a dye as na-
ture. The diiliculties of carryin it on against the Divine religion
of the Jew, and rooted custom 0? the Gentiles, were unconquerable
by any but an Almight power. And in this the power of God
hath a peared wonderfully. _
(3.) gt was contrary to the sensuality of the world, and the lusts
of the flesh. How much the Gentiles were overgrown with base
and unworthy lusts at the time of the publication of the gospel,
needs no other memento than the apostle’s discourse (Rom. i). As
there was no error but prevailed upon their minds, so there was no
brutish affection but was wedded to their hearts. The doctrinpwpim-
posed to them was not easy; it flattered not the sense, but ch ed
the stream of nature. It thundered down those three great engines
whereb the devil had subdued the world to himself: “ the lust of
the flesh, the lust of the eye, and the ride of lifez” not only the
most sordid affections of the Hesh, but the more refined gratilications
of the mind : it stri ped nature both of devil and man; of what was
commonl esteemedp great and virtuous. That which was the root
of their fiime, and the satisfaction of their ambition, was struck at
by this axe of the gospel. The first article of it ordered them to
deny themselves, not to presume upon their own worth ; to lay their
understandings and wills at the foot of the cross, and resign them up
to one newly crucified at Jerusalem : honors and wealth were to be
despised, flesh to be tamed, the cross to be borne, enemies to be
loved, revenge not to be satisfied, blood to be spilled, and torments
to be endured for the honor of One they never saw, nor ever be-
fore heard of; who was preached with the circumstances of a shame-
ful death, enough to aifrrght them hom the entertainment: and the
report of a resurrection and glorious ascension were things never
heard of by them before, and unknown in the world, that would not
easily enter into the belief of men: the cross, disgrace, self-denial,
were only discoursed of in order to the attainment of an invisible
world, and an unseen reward, which none of their predecemors ever
returned to acquaint them with; a patient death, contrary to the
pride of nature, was published as the wa to happiness and a blessed
immortality: the dearest lusts were to be pierced to death for the
honor of this new Lord. Other religions brought wealth and honor;
this struck them off from such expectations, and presented them
with no promise of anything in this life, but a prospect of misery $
except those inward consolations to which before the had been utter
strangers, and had never experimented. It made them to depend
not upon themselves, but upon the sole grace of God. It decried all
natural, all moral idolatry, things as dear to men as the ap le of
their eyes. It despoilcd them of whatsoever the mind, will, and
affections of men, naturally lay claim to, and glory in. It pulled

