ON THE PCWER OF GOD.  
self up bg' the roots, unmanned carnal man, and debased the prin#
ciple ol' onor and selflsatisfaction, which the worrld counted at that
time noble and brave. In a word, it ,took them of from themselverg
toact like creatures of God’s framing; to know no more than he
would admit them, and do no more than he did command them.
How difficult must it needs be to reduce npn, that placed all their
happiness in the pleasures of this life, from their pom us idolatry
an brutish aifections, to this mortilljlying religion I Whit might the
world say? Here is a doctrine wi render us a company of puling
animals: farewell generosity, bravery, sense of honor, coinage in
enlarging the bounds of our country, for an ardent charity to the
bittsrest of our enemies. Here is a religion will rust our swords,
maker our arms, dispirit what we have hitherto called virtue, and
annihilate what hath been esteemed worthy and comely among man-
kind. Must we change conquest for suffering, the increase of our
reputation for self-denial, the natural sentiment of selfipreservation
for aH`ectin a dreadful death? How impossible was it that a cru-
cified Lori and a crucifying doctrine should be received in the
world without the mighty operation of a divine power u on the
hearts of men! And in this also the almighty power of (god did
notably shine forth.
. 2. Divine power appeared in the instruments em loyed for the
publishing and propagating the gospel; who were il.) Mean and
worthless in themse ves: not noble and dignified with an earthly
grandeur, but of a. low condition, meanly bred: so far from any
splendid estates, that they possessed nothing but their nets; without
any credit and reputation in the world; without comelinem and
strength; as unfit to subdue the world by preaching, as an army of
hares were to conquer it by war: not leamed doctors, bred up at the
feet of the famous Rabbins at Jerusalem, whom Paul calls “the
princes of the world”_ (1 Cor.   8); nor nursed u in the school of
Athens, under the philosophers and orators of tihe time: not the
Wise men of Greece, but the fishermen of Galilee; naturally skilled
in no language but their own, and no more exact in that than those
of the same condition in any other nation: ignorant of everything
but the language of their lakes, and their Hshing trade; except Paul,
called some time after the rest to that employment: and after the
descent of the Spirit, they were ignorant and unlearned in eve -
thing but the doctrine t ey were commanded to publish; for tlliye
council, before whom they were summoned, prove them to be so,
which increased their wonder at them (Acts iv. 13). Had it been
published by a voice from heaven, that twelve poor men, taken out
of boats and creeks, without any help of learning, should conquer
the world to the cross, it might have been thought an illusion against
all the reason of men; yet we know it was undertaken and accom-
plished by them. They ublished this doctrine in Jerusalem, and
quickly spread it over tge greatest part of the world. Folly out~
witted wisdom, and weakness overpowered strength. The conquest
of the east by Alexander was not so admirable as the enterprise of
them poor men. l He attempted his conquest with the hands of a
warlike nation, though, indeed, but a small number of thirty thou.

