70 CHABNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
sand against multitudes, many hundred thousands of the enemies;
yet an eifeminate enemy; a people inured to slaughter and victory
attacked great numbers, but enfeebled by luxury and volu tuousness.
Besides, he was bred up to such enterprises, had a learned. education
under the best (philosopher, and a military education under the best
commander, an anaturgl courage to animate him. These instm-
ments had no such advantage from nature; the heavenly treasure
was placed in those earthen vessels, as Gideon’s lamps in empty
pitchers (Judges vii. 139, that the excellency, or hyperbole, of the
power, might be of G (2 Cor. iv. 7), and the strength of his arm
e dis layed in the intirmit of the instruments. Thev were desti-
tute og earthl wisdom, and' therefore despised by the Jews, and de
rided by the Gentiles; the publishers were accounted madmcxi, and
the embracers fools. Had they been men of known natural endow-
ments, the power of God had been veiled under the gifts ofthe creature.
(2.) Therefore a Divine power suddenly spirited them, and fitted
them for so great a work. Instead of ignorance, the had the
knowledge of the tongues; and they that were scarce well' skilledin
their own dialect, were instructed on the sudden to speak the must
flourishing languages in the world, and discourse to the peopleof
several nations the great things of God (Acts   11). Though they
were not enriched with anty worldly wealth, and ‘possessed nothing,
yet they were so sustaine that they wanted no ing in any place
where they came; a table was spread for them in the midst of their
bitterest enemies. . Their fearfulness was changed inte courage, and
they that a few days before skulked in corners for fear of the
Jews (John xx. 19), speak boldly in the name of that Jesus, whom
they had seen put to eath by the power of the rulers and the fury
of the people: they reproach them with the murder of their Master,
and outbrave that great people in the midst of their temple, with
the glory of that person they ad so lately crucified (Acts ix 23;  
13). Peter, that was not long before cpualmed at the resenoe of a
maid, was not daunted at the presence o the council, that had their
hands yet reeking with the blood of his Master; but being ‘filled with
the Holy Ghost, seems to dare the power of the priests and Jewish
overnors, and is as conhdent in the council chamber, ashe had
ieen cowardly in the high-priest’s hall (Acts iv. 9), &c., the efficacy
of grace triumphing over the fearfulness of nat1u'e. Whence should
this ardor and zeal, to propagate a doctrine that had already borne
the scars of the peoples’ fury be, but from a mighty Power, which
changed those hares into lions, and stripped them of their natural
cowardiee to clothe them with a Divine courage; making them in a
moment both wise and m animous, alienating them from any cou-
sultations with ilesh anduillood? As soon as ever the Holy Ghost
came upon them as a mighty rushing wind, they move u and down
for the interest of God; as fish, after a great clap of dhunder, are
roused, and move more nimbl on the to of the water; therefore,
that which did so tit them for this undertaking, is called by the title
of “ wer from on high” (Luke xxiv. 49).
3. ?he Divine power appears in the means whereby it was pm?
agate _

