on THE rowan or son. 'Il
(1.) By means different from the methods of the world. Not by
force of arms, as some religions have taken root in the world. Ma-
homet’s horse hath trampled u on the heads of men, to imprint an
Alcoran in their brains, and roiibed men of their goods to plant their
religion. But the apostles bore not this doctrine through the world
upon the ints of their swords; they plresented a bodily death where
they wouidobestow an immortal life. hey employed not troops of
men in a warlike posture, which had been possible for them after
the gospel was once spread; they had no ambition to subdue men
unto thernselve, but to God; they coveted not the sscssions of oth-
els; designed not to enrich themselves; invade<i)iiot the rights of
princes, nor the liberties and properties of the peo le: they rifled
them not of their estates, nor scare them into this religion b a fear
of losing their worldly happiness. The arguments they use<i7would
naturally drive them from an entertainment of this doctrine, rather
than allure them to be proselytes to it: their design was to change
their hearts, not their government; to wean them from the love of
the world, to a love of a Redeemer; to remove that which would
ruin their souls. It was not to enslave them, but ransom them; they
had a warfare, but not with carnal weapons, but such as were
“mighty through God for the pulling down strongholds’f (2 Cor. x. 4);
they used no weapons but the doctrine they preached. Others that
have not gained conquests by the edge of the sword and the strata-
gems of war, have extended their opinions to others by the strength
of human reason, and the insinuations of elo uence. But the apos-
tles had as little flourish in their tongues, as eidge upon their swords:
their preaching was “not with the enticing words of man’s wisdom”
(1 Cor. ii. 4) _; their presence was mean, and their discourses without
vamish; their doctrine was plain, a “crucified Christ ;” a doctrine
unlaced, ungarnished, untoothsome to the world; but they had the
demonstration ofthe Spirit, and a mighty power for their companion
in the work. The doctrine they preache , viz. the death, resurrection
and ascension of Christ, are ca led the powers, not of this world, but
“of the world to come” (Heb. vi. 5). No loss than a su rnatural
power could conduct them in this attempt, with such weagemethodz
ln human appearance.
(2.) Against all the force, power, and wit of the w6rld. The di-
vision in the eastern cm ire, and the feeble and consuming state of
the western, contributed to Mahomet’s success.” But never was
Rome in a more flourishing condition : learning, eloquence, wisdom,
strength, were at the highest pitch. Never was there a more dili-
gent watch against any innovations; never was that state governed
by more severe and suspicious rinces, than at the time when Tibe-
rms and Nero held the reins. £10 time seemed to be more unfit for
the entrance of a new doctrine than that age, wherein it begun to be
first published ; never did any religion meet with that opposition
from men. Idolatry hath been often settled without any contest;
but this hath suffered the same fate with the institutor of it, and en-
dured the contradictions of sinners against itself: and those that
published it, were not only without any worldly prop, but exposed
I Daille. Serm. XV. p. 57.

