'72 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'l‘RIBU’I‘E.
themselves tothe hatred and f1u'y, to the racks and tortures, of the
strongest powers on earth. It never set foot in any placxe, but the
country was in an uproar (Acts xix. 28); swords were drawn to
destroy it; laws made to suppress it; prisons provided for the pro
fcssors of it; dres kindled to consume them, and executioners hada
perpetual employment to stifle the progress of it. Rome, in its con-
quest of countries, changed not t e religion, rites, and modes of
their worship: they altered their civil government, but left them to
the liberty of their religion, and many times _joined with them in
the worship of their eculiar gods; and sometime imitated them at
Rome, instead of abolishing them in the cities they had subdued
But all their councils were assembled, and their force was ban-iied
“ against the Lord, and against his Christ ;” and that city that kindly
received all manner of superstitious, hated this doctrine with an ir-
reeoncileable hatred. It met with re roaches from the wise, and
fur from the potentates; it was derididd by the one as the greatest
foll}y, and persecuted b the other as contrary to God and mankind;
the one were afraid to lbse their esteems b the doctrine, and the
other to lose their authority by a sedition tliey thought a change of
reli ion would introduce. The Romans, that had been conquerois
of tie earth, feared intestine cornmotions, and the falling asunder
the links of their em ire: scarce any of their ‘first emperors, but
had their swords dyed) red in the blood of the Christians. The flesh
with all 'its lusts, the world with all its flatteries the statesmen with
all their craft, and the mighty _with all their strength, joined to-
gether to extiripate it: though maniy members were taken off by the
fires, yet the c iurch not on 5 live , but flourished, in the furnace.
Converts were made by the eath of martyrs; and the flames which
consumed their bodies, were the occasion of "firing merifs hearts with
a zeal for the profession of it. Instead of being extinguished, the
doctrine shone more bright, and multiplied under the sickles that
were em loyed to cut it downl God ordered every circumstanceerl,
both in die persons that ublished it, the means whereby, and the
time when, that nothing ibut his power might appear in it, without
anything to dim and darken it.
4. The Divine power was conspicuous in the great success it had
under all these diliiculties. Multitudes were prophesied of to cm-
brace it; whence the prophet Isaiah, after the prophec ' of the
death of Christ   liii.), calls upon the church to enlar her tents,
and “lengthen out her cords" to receive those multitud; of chil-
dren that should call her mother (Isa. liv. 2, 3)° for she should
“break forth on the right hand and on the left, and her seed should
inherit the Gentiles I” the idolaters and persecutors should list their
names in the muster-roll of the church. Presently, after the descent
of the Holy Ghost from heaven upon the apostles, you find the
hearts of three thousand melted by a lain declaration of this dw
trine; who were a little before so fiir from havin a, favorable
thought of it, thatisome of them at least, if not all, had expressed
their ragle against it, in voting for the condemning and crucifying
the Ant or of it (Acts ii. 41, 432: but in a moment they were so
altered, that they breathe out a eetions instead of fury; neither tht

