oN THE rownn or son. 78
respect they had to their rulers, nor the honor they bore to their
priests; not the derisions of the people, nor the threatening of pun-
ishment, could stop them from owning it in the face of multitudes
of discouragements. How wonderful is it that they should so soon
and by such small means, pa a reverence to the servants, who had
none for the Master! that they should hear them with patience,
without the same clamor againstlthem as against Christ, “ Crucify
them, cruciiy them l” but, that their hearts should so suddenly be in-
flamed with devotion to him dead, whom they so much abhorred
when living. It had gained footing not in a. corner of the world,
but in the most famous cities; in Jerusalem, where Christ had been
crucitied; in Antioch, where the name of Christians first began ; in
Corinth, a place of ingenious arts; and Ephesus, the seat of a noted
idol. In less than twenty years, there was never a province of the
Roman empire, and scaroeany part of the known world, but was
stoned with the professors of it. Rome, that was the metropolis of
the idolatrous world, had multitudes of them s rinkled in every
comer, whose “faith was spoken of throughout the world” (Rom. 1.
8). The court of Nero, that monster of mankind, and the cruelest
and sordidest tyrant that ever breathed, was not empty of sincere
votaries to it; there were “saints in Caesar’s house” while Paul was
under Nero’s chain (Phil. iv.): and it maintained its standin , and
and flourished in spite of all the force of hell, two hundred and
fifty years before any sovereign rince espoused it. '1‘he otentates
of the earth had conquered the llinds of men, and subdued theirbo-
dies; these vanquished hearts and wills, and brought the most be-
loved thoughts under the yoke of Christ: so much did this doctrine
overmaster the consciences of its followers, that they rejoiced more
at their yoke, than others at their liberty; and counted it more a
glory to die for the honor of it, than to live in the profession of it.
hus did our Saviour reign and gather subjects in the midst of his
enemies; in which respect, in the first discovery of the gospel, he is
described as “ a mighty Conqueror” (Rev. vi. 2), and still conquering
in the greatness of his strength. How. great a testimony of his
power is it, that from so small a cloud should rise so glorious a sun,
that should chase before it the darkness and power of hell; trium h
over the idolatry, superstition, and profaneness of the world! Tllis
plain doctrine vanquished the obstinacy of the Jews, bafiled the un-
elstandin of the Greeks, humbled the ride of the grandees,
threw the devil not only out of bodies, but hearts; tore up the foun-
dation of his empire, and planted the cross, 'where the devil had‘for
many ages before established his standard. How much more than a
human orce isillustrious in this whole conduct! Nothing in any
age of the world can arallel it: it being so much against the me-
thods of nature, the diiisposition of the world, and (considering the
resistanw against it) seems to siumount even the works of creation.
Never were there, in any profession, such multitudes, not of bed-
lams, but men of sobriety, acuteness, and wisdom, that exposed
themselves to the fury' ot' the Eames, and challenged death in the
most terrif ing shapes for tl e honor of this doctrine. To conclude,
this sho lltiy be often meditat/ed upon to form our understandings to a

