74 cinnnocx ON rm: uirnmvrns.
full assent to the gospel, and the truth of it; the want of which con-
sideration of power, and the customariness of an education in the
outward profession of it, is the ground of all the profaneness under
it, and apostasy from it; the disesteem of the truth it declares, and
the neglect of the duties it enjoins. The more we have a prospect
and sense of the impressions of Divine power in it, the more we
shall have a reverence of the Divine precepts.
III. 'l‘he third thing is, the power of God appears in the applies,
tion of redemption, as well as in the Person redeeming, an the
publication an propagation of the doctrine of redemtpltion: 1. In
the planting grace. 2. In the pardon of sin. 3. In e preserving
grace.
First, In the planting   There is no expression which the
Spirit of God hath thong t fit in Scripture to resemble this work to,
but argues the exerting of a Divine power for the effecting of it.
When it is expressed by light, it is as much as the power of God in
the creating the sun; when by regeneration, it is as much as the
power of God in forming an infant, and fashioning all the parts of
a man; when it is called resurrection, it is as much as the rearing
of a body again out of putrified matter; when it is called creation, it
is as much as erecting a comely world out of mere nothing or an
inform and uncomely mass. As we could not contrive the oath ol
Christ for our redemption, so we cannot form our souls to the ac-
ceptation of it; the infinite eiiicac of grace is as necessary for the
one, as the infinite wisdom of God' was for laying the platform of
the other. It is by his power we have whatsoever pertains to  
liness as well im life (2 et. i. SL; he puts his fingers upon the han-
dle of the lock, and turns the eart to what int he pleases; the
action whereby he performs this, is expressedpli a word of force;
“He hath snatched us from the power of darlIness:”“ the action
whereby it is performed manifests it. In reference tothis power, itis
called creation, which is a production from nothin ; and conversion is
a production from something more incapable of Sant state, than mere
nothing is of being. There is greater istance between the terms of
sin and righteousness, corruption and grace, than between the terms of
nothing and being; the greater the distance is, the more poweris re-
tpluired to the plro ucing any thing. As in miracles, the miracle is
t e greater, w ere the change is the greater; and the change is the
greater, where the distance is the greater. As it was a more signal
mark of power to change a dead man to life, than to change a sick
man to ealth; so that the change here being from a term of a
greater distance, is more powerful than the creation of heaven and
earth. Therefore, whereas creation is said to be wrought by his
hands, and the heavens by his fingers, or his word; conversion is
said to be wrought by his arm (Isa. liii. 1). In creation, we had an
earthly; by conversion, a heavenly state: in creation, nothing is
changed into something; in conversion, hell is transformed into
heaven, which is more than the turning nothing into.a glorious
angel. In that thanksgivnig of our Saviour, for the revelation of
the knowledge of himself to babes, the simple of the world, ho givl
- con.. i. is. fppeem.

