on rms: rownn or con. 75
the title to his Father, of “Lord of heaven and earth" (Mat. xi. 5)';
intimating it to be an act of his creative and preserving wer; that
power whereby he formed heaven and earth, hath pxggerved the
standing, and governed the motions of all creatures from the  
ning of the world. It is resembled to the most ma?i.(ice1_t act of
divine wer that God ever put forth, viz. that “in t e resurrection
of our gvioun” (Eph. i. 19); wherein there was more than an or-
dinary impression of might. It is not so small a power as that
whereby we speak with tongues, or whereby Christ opened the
mouths of the umb, and the ears of the deaf, or unloosed the cords
of death from a person. It is not that power whereby our Saviour
wrought those stupendous miracles when he was in the world: but
that wer which wrought a miracle that amazed the most knowing
angelfas well as ignorant man ; the   off the weight of the sin of
the world from our Saviour, and advancing him in his human nature
to rule over the angelic host, making him head of principalities and
powers; as much as to say, as great as all that power which is dis-
played in our redemption, &'om the firstfoundation to the last line in
the superstructure. It is, therefore, often set forth with an em~
basis, as “ Excellency of (power” (2 Cor. iv. ;)$and “Glorious power”
£2 Pet. i. 3); “ to loryan virtue,” we tran te it, but it is dm ddiqg,
through glory ang virtue, that is, by a glorious virtue or strength.
The instrument whereby it is wrought, is dignified with the title
of rlplpwer. The gospel which God useth in this great affair is called
“ e power of God to salvation" (Rom. i. 16), and the “ Rod of
his strength” (Ps. ox. 2); and the day of the gosfpel's appearance in
the heart is emphatically called, “The day o power ’ (ver. 3);
wherein he brings down strong-holds and _towering imaginations.
And, therefore, the angel Gabrie , which name signifies the power
of God, was always sent upon those messages which concerned the
W, as to Daniel, Zacharias, Mary.° The gospel is the power of
in a way of instrumentality, but the almightmess of God is the
principal in a way of ef’ricienc}y. The gosipel is the Sceptre of Christ;
ut the power of Christ is t e mover o that sceptre. The ospel
is not as a bare word spoken, and proposing the thing; but as
backed with a higher efficacy of grace; as the sword doth instru-
mentally cut, but the arm that wields it gives the blow, and makes
itsuecesful in the stroke. But this gospel is the power of God,
because he edgeth this by his own power, to surmount all resist-
ance, and van uish the greatest malice of that man he designs to
work upon. The power of God is conspicuous,
1, In turning the heart of man against the strength of the inclina-
tions of nature. In the forming of man of the dust of the ground;
as the matter contributed nothing to the action whereby God formed
it, so it had no principle of resistance contrary to the design of God;
but in converting the heart, there is not onl wanting a principle of
amistance from him in this work, butthe wllole strength of corrupt
nature is alarmed to combat against the power of his grace. When
the gospel is presented, the understanding is not only ignorant of it,
but the will perverse against it; the one doth not re ish, and the
° Grotius in Luke i. 19.

