76 ` cmasocx on 'mm mrwsmurns.
other doth not esteem, the excellency of the object. The carnal
wisdom in the mind contrives against it., and the rebellious will puts
the orders in execution against the counsel of God, which requires
the invincible power of .God to enlighten the dark mind, to know
what it slights; and the fierce will, to embrace what it loathes.
The stream of nature cannot be turned, but by a power above na-
ture; it .is not all the created power in heaven and earth can change
a swine into a man, or a venemous toad into an holy and illustrious
angel. Yet this work is not so great, in some res t, as the stilling
the ‘derccness of nature, the silencin the swelllliicg waves in the
heart, and the casting out those brutisli affections which are born
and grow up with us. There would be no, or far less, resistance in
a mere animal, to be changed into 'a creature of a higher rank, than
there is in a natural man to be turned into a serious Christian
There is in every natural man a stoutness of heart, a stiff neck, un-
willingness to good, forwardness to evil; Ininite Power quells this
stoutness, demolisheth these strongholds, turns this wild ass in her
course, and routs those   of turbulent nature against the grace
of God. To step the floods of the sea is not such an act of power,
as to turn the ti e of the heart. This power hath -been em loyed
upon every convert in the world; what would you say, dhen, if
you knew all the channels in which it hath run since the days of
Adam? If the alteration of one rocky heart into a pool of water be
a wonder of power( what then is the calming and sweetening by his
word those 144,000 of the tribes of Israel, and- that numberless
multitude of all nations and peo le that shall stand “before the
throne” (Rev. vii. 9),~ which were alll naturally so many raging seas?
Not one converted soul from Adam to the last that shall be in the
end 'of' the world, but is a tro hy of the Divine conquest. None
were ure volunteers, nor listedp themselves in his service, till he put
forth his strong arm to draw them to him. No man’s understand-
ing, but was chained with darkness, and fond of it; no man but
had corru tion in his will, which was dearer to him than anything
else whicll) could be proposed for his true happiness. These things
are most evident in Scripttue and ex erience.
2. As it is wrought against the inclinations of nature, so against
amultitude of corrupt habits rooted in the souls of men. A dis-
temper in its Hrst invasion may more easily be cured, than when it
becomes chronical and inveterate. The strength of a disease, or the
complication of many, magniiies the gower of the hysician, and
eiiicacy of the medicine that tames an expels it; lghat power I5
that which hath made men stoop, when natural habits have been
grown giants biy custom; when the .putrefaction of nature hath err
gendered a mu titude of worms; when the ulcers are many and de~
plorable; when many cords, wherewith God would have bound the
sinner, have been broken, and (like Sampson! the wicked heart hath
gloried in its strength, and grown more (prou , that it hath stood like
a str ing fort against those ‘ba/tteries, un er which others have fallen
flat; every proud thought, every evil habit captivated, serves fOr
matter of triumph to-the “power of God” (2 Cor. x. 5). What 1'0-
sistance will a multitude of them make, when one of them is enough

