- ON THE POWER or con. '77
to hold the faculty under its dominion, and intercept its operations?
.So many customary habits, so many old natures, so many diflerent
strengths added to nature, every one of them standing as a barricade
against the way of grace; all the errors the understanding is os-
sessed with, think the gospel folly; all the vices the will is filled
with, count it the fetter and band. Nothing so contrary to man, as
to be thought a fool; nothing so contrary to man, as to enter into
slavery. It is no easy matter to plant the ,cross of Christ u on a
heart guided by man principles against the truth of it, and hissed
by a world of wickediiiess against the holiness of it. Nature renders
aman too feeble and indisposed, and custom renders a man more
weak and unwilling to change his hue (Jer. xiii. 23). To dispossess
man then of his self-esteem and self-excellency; to make room for
God in the heart, where there was none but for sin, as dear to him
as himself; to hurl down the pride of nature; _to make stout ima-
ginations stoo to the cross; to makes desires of self-advancement
sink into a ze£ for the glorifying of God, and an overruling de~
sign for his honor, is not to be ascribed to any but an outstretched
arm wielding the sword ofthe Spirit. To have a heart full of the
fear of God, that was just before tilled with a. contempt of him; to
have a sense of his power, an e e to his lory, admiring thoughts
of his wisdom, a faith in his truth, that haf? lower thoughts of him
and all his perfections, than he had of a creature; to have a hatred
of his habitual lusts, that had brought him in much sensitive plea-
sure; to loath them as much as he loved them; to cherish the du-
ties he hated; to live by faith in, and obedience to, the Redeemer,
who was before so heartily under the conduct of Satan and self; to
chase the acts of sin from his members, and the pleasing thoughts of
sin from his mind; to make a stout wretch willingly fall down, crawl
upon the ground., and adore that Saviour whom before he out-dared, is
a triumphant act oflniinite Power that can subdue all things to itself;
and break those multitudes of locks and bolts that were u on us. ,
3. Against a ,multitude of tem tations and interests. 'lihc temptaf
tions rich men have in this woriil are so numerous and strong, that
the entrance of one of them into the kingdom of heaven, that is, the
entertainment of the gospel, is made b our Saviour an impossible
thing with men, and rocurable only by the power of God (Luke
xviii. 24-26). The llivine strength Zonly can separate the world
from the heart, and the heart from the world. There must be an in~
comprehensible power to chase away the devil, that had so long, so
stronga footing in the affections; to render the soil he had sown
with so many tares and weeds, capable of good grain; to make
splints, that had found the sweetness of worldly prosperity, wrapt up
their happiness in it, and not only bent down, but-as it were-
buried in earth and mud, to be loosened from those beloved cords,
to disrelish the earth for a crucified Christ; I say, this must be the
eifect of an almighty power. _
4. The manner of. conversion shews no less the power of God.
There is not only an irresistible force used in it, but an agreeable
sweetness. The power is so efficacious, that nothing can vanquish
it; and so sweet, that none did ever complain of it. The Almighty

