78 crmznocx on THE sTTn1nUTEs.
virtue displays itself invincibly, yet without constraint; compelling
the will without offering violence to it, and making it cease to be
will; not forcing it, but changing it’: not dragging it, but drawing
it; making it will where before it nilled; removing the corrupt na-
ture ofthe will, without invading’ the created nature and rights of
the faculty; not working in us against the physical nature of the
will, but working it “ to will” (Phil.   13). his work is therefore
called creation, resurrection, to shew its irresistible power , it is called
illumination, persuasion, drawing, to shew the suitableness of its effi-
cacy to the nature of the human faculties: it is a drawing with
cords, which testifies an invincible strength; but, with cords of love,
which testifies a delightful conquest. It is hard to determine
whether it be more powerful than sweet, or more sweet than power-
ful. It is no mean part of the power of God to twist together vic-
tory and fpleasure; to give a blow as delightful as strong, as pleasing
to the su erer, as it is shar to the sinner. _
Secondly, The power of) God, in the application of redemption, is
evident in the pardonin a sinner.
1. In the pardon itselé The power of God is made the und of
his patience; or the reason why he is patient, is, becauseiie) would
“shew his power" (Rom. ix. 22). Itis apart of magnanimity to ass
by injmies: as weaker stomachs cannot concoct the tougher foomi so
weak minds cannot digest the harder injuries: he that passes over a
wrong is superior to his adversary that does it. When God speaks
of his own name as merciful, he speaks first of himself as powerful
(Exod. xxxiv. 6), “The Lord, The Lord God,” that is, T e Lord,
the strong Lord, Jehovah, the strong) Jehovah. Let the power of
my Lord be great, saith Moses, when e prays for the forgiveness of
the peo le :P the word _gigdal is written with a great ghd, or a jbd
above the other letters. The power of God in pardoning is advanced
beyond an ordinary strain, beyond the creative strength. In the
creation, he had power over the creatures; in this, power over him-
self: in creation, not himself, but the creatures were the object of his
wer; in that, no attribute of his nature could article against his
  In the ardon of a sinner, after many overtures made to
him and refused by him, God exerciseth a ower over himself; for
the sinner hath dishonored God, provoked) hisjustice, abused his
odness, done injury to all those attributes which are necessarv *D
his relief: it was not so in creation, nothing was incapable ofdis-
obliging God from bringing it into being. The dust, which was the
matter of Adam’s body, needed only the extrinsic power of God to
form it into a man, and inspire it with a living soul: it had not ren-
dered itself obnoxious to Divine justice, nor was capable to excite
any disputes between his perfections. But after the entrance of sin,
and the merit of death, thereby there was a resistance 'in justice 10
the free remission of man: God was to exercise a power over him»
self; to answer his justice, and pardon the sinner; as well as a power
over the creature, to reduce t e run away and rebel. Unlem W0
have recourse to the infiniteness of God’s power, the infinitenms of
our guilt will weigh us down: we must consider not only that we
I Numb. xiv. 17. 9|/au0r}ru, be exalted. Sept. Strength, th '

