on 'rss rowsn or ooo. 79
have a mighty 'lt to press us, but a might God to relieve us. In
the same act of iii; being our righteousness, he is our strength: “In
the Lord have I righteousness and strength" (Isa. xlv. 24).
2. In the sense of pardon. When the soul hath been wounded
with the sense of sin, and its iniquities have stared it in the face, the
raising the soul from a despairing condition, and lifting it above those
waters which terrified it, to cast the light of comfort, as well as the
light of grace, into a heart covered with more than an Egyptian
darkness, is an act of his infinite and creating power (Isa. lvii. lil);
“I create the fruit of the lips; Peace.” Men may wear out their `. ’g.1
with numbering up the promises of grace and arguments of p acc,
but all will s' ify no more, without a creative power, than 12' all
men and angdf should call to that white upon the wall to shi no aw
Zplendidl as the sun. God onlysacan create Jerusalem, and -_:very
ild of derusalem a rejoicing( _ xlv. 18). A man is no more
able to apply to himself any word of comfort, under the sense of sin,
than he is able to convert himself and turn the proplosals oi' the
word into gracious aiiections in his heart. To restore t e jog ct' sal-
vation, is, in David’s judgment, an act of sovereign power equal to
that of creating a clean heart (Ps. li. 10, 12). Alas! it is a state like
to that of death; as infinite power can only raise from natural death,
so from a spiritual death; also f. om a_comfortle.:s death: “ In his fn.-‘
vor there rs life ;" in the want of his favor there is death. The
power of God hath so placed light in the sun, that all creatures in
the world, all the torches upon earth, kindled together, cannot make
it day, if that doth not rise; so :ui the angels in heaven, and men
upon earth, are not competent cliirufgecrrs for a wounded spirit. The
cure of our spiritual ulcers, and the pouring in balm, is an act of
sovereign creative power: it is more visible in silencing a tempes»
tuous conscience than the power of our Saviour was in the stil ing
the stormy winds and the roaring waves. As none but infinite
power can remove the guilt of sin, so none but infinite power can re-
move the dos airin sense of it.
Thirdly, This poéver is evident in the preserving grace. As the
providence of God is a manifestation o his power in a continued
creation, so thc preservation of grace is a manifestation of his power
in a continued regeneration. To keep a nation under the yoke, is an act
of the same power that subdued it. It is this that strengthens men in
suffering against the figfy of hell (Col. i. 13); itis this that kee s them
from falling against t e force o hell-the Father’s hand (gohn x.
29). His strength abates and moderates the violence of tem tations;
his stan' sustains his people under them ; his might defeats the power
of Satan, and bruiseth im under a believer’s feet. The counter~
workings of indwelling corruption, the reluctances of the flesh
against the breathings 0 the spirit, the fallacy of the senses, and the
rovings of the mind, have ability quickly to stifle and extinguish
éflloe, if it were not maintained by that powerful blast that first im-
reathed it. No less power is seen in peril-sting it, than was in
planting it (2 Pet. i 3); no less in fulfilling the work of faith, than
inengraiting the word of faith (2 Thess. i. 11). The apostle well
unierstood the necessitv and efficacy of it in the preservation of faith,

