80 ` CHARNOCK oN- 'rms ATPRIBUTFS.
as well as in the 'first infusion, when he expresses himself in thosq
terms of a greatness or hy rbole of power, “ His mighty power,'
or the power of his might Egph. i. 19). The salvation he bestows,
and the strength where y he effects it, are joined together in the »ro-
phet’s song (Isa. xii. 2): “The Lord is my strength and my salva-
tion.” And indeed, God doth more magnify his power in continu-
ing a believer in the world, a weak an half-rigged vessel, in the
midst of so many sands wheron it might split, so many rocks whereon
it might dash, so manv corruptions within, and so many temptations
without, than if he did immediately transport him into heaven, and
clothe him with a perfect sanctified nature.-To conclude, what is
there, then, in the world which is destitute of notices of Divine
pow cr? Every creature affords us the lesson ; all acts of Divine gov-
ernment are the marks of it. Look into the word, and the manner of
its propagation instructs us in it; your changed natures, your par-
doned guilt, your shining comfort, your quelled corruptions, the
standing of your staggering graces, are suiicient to preserve a sense,
and to prevent a forgetfulness, of this great attribute, so necessary for
your sugenort, and conducinv so much to your comfort.
Use I_ Cf information and; instruction. _
In.str:zvI. 1. If incomprehensible and infinite power belongs to the
:future of God, then Jesus Christ hath a divine nature, because the
acts of power proper to God are ascribed to him. This perfection
of omnipotence doth unquestionably pertain to the Deity, and is an
incommunicable pri,-gierty, and the same with the essence of God: he,
therefore, towhom :his attribute is ascribed, is essentially God. This
is challenged by Christ, in eon_§um;rion with eternity (Rev. i. 8); “I
am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord,
which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Alrni hty."
This the Lord Christ speaks of himself He who was e ual with
God, proclaims irirnself by the essential title ofthe Godhead, part of
which he repeats again (ver. 11), and this is the person which “walks
‘in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks," the person that “ was
dead and now lives” (ver. 17, 18), which cannot possibly be meant
of the Father, the First Person, who can never come under the de-
nomination of having been dead. Being, therefore, adomed with
the same title, he hath the same Deity; and though his omnipotence
be only positively asserted (ver. 8), yet, his eternity being aserted
(ver. ll, 17), it inferreth his immense power; for he that is eternal,
without limits of time. must needs be conceived powerful, without
any dash of intirmity. Again, when he is said to be a child hom,
and a son given, in the same breath he is called the Mightv God
(Isa. ix. 6). It is introduced as a ground of comfort to the church,
to preserve their hopes in the accomplishment of the plromises made
to them before. They should not imagine him to ave only the
innrmity of a man, though he was veiled in the appearance of a man
No, the should look throu h the disguise of his flesh, to the might
of his Liodhead. The attriliute of mighty is added to the title of
God, because the consideration of wer is most capable to sustain
the drooping Church in' such a condiliiou, and to prop up her hopes
It is upon this account he saith of himself, “ Whatsoever things the

