_ ON mn rowim or son. 81
r doth, those also doth the Son likewise” (John v. 19). In the
on of heaven, earth, sea, and the preservation of all creatures,
on works with the same will, wisdom, virtue, power, as the
r works: not as two may concur in an action in a different
er, as an agent 'and an instrument, a carpenter and his tools,
L the same manner of operation, dpolw, which we translate like-
which doth not express so well the em basis of the word.
= is no diversity of action between us; what the Father doth,
[do by the same power, with the same easiness in every re-
; there is the same creative, productive, conservative power in
Jf us; and that not in one work that is done, owl extra, but~in
whatsoever the Father doth. In the same manner, not by a
wed, but natural and essential power, by one imdivided opera-
nd manner of working. '
The creation, which is a work of Omnipotence, is more than
ascribed to him. This he doth own himself; the creation of
irth, and of man upon it; the stretching out the heavens by his
, and the forming of “ all the hosts of them by his command”
rlv. 12). He is not only the Creator of Israel, the church (ver.
ut of the whole world, and every creatine on the face of the
and in the glories of the heavens; which is repeated also ver.
here, in this act of creation, he is called God himself, and
s of himself in the term Jehovah; and swears by himself (ver.
\Vhat doth he swear? “That unto me ever knee shall bow,
very tongue shall swear.” Is this Christ? ¥es, if the apostle
bel' ed, h l' `ttoli' (Ro `.11 to th
ie iev ' w o app ies 1 im m. xiv ) prove e
rance of all men before the judgment-seat of Christ, whom the
,et calls (ver. 15}))B;a God that hides himself ;” and so he was a
n God when o ured in our fleshly infirmitiea He was in
notion with the Father when the sea received his decree, and
undations of the earth were ap ointed; not as a s ectator, but
artificer, for so the word in §rov. viii. 30, signifies, “as one
ght u with him ;” it signifies also, “ a cunning Workman” (Cant.
). Ill)e was, the east, or the sun, from whence spran all the
of life and being to the creature; so the word D'¥P'€V€!`. 22),
i is translated, “ before his works of old,” is rendered by some,
ignifies the east as well as before: but if it notes only his ex-
e before, it is enough to prove his Deity. The Scripture doth
uly allow him an existence before the world, but exalts him as
muse of the world: a thing may precede another that is not the
of that which follows; a precedency in age doth not entitlf
rother, or thing, the cause of another: but our Saviour is not
ancienter than the world, but is the Creator of the world (Heb.
11). “Who laid the foundations of the earth, and the heavens
ie work of his hands.” So great an eulogy cannot be given to
estitute of omnipotence; since the distance between being and
sing is so vast a gulf that cannot be slumounded and steppled
but by an Infimte Power: he is the first and the last, t at
Y the “ generations from the beginning” (Isa. xli. 4), and had
n' hty voice to call them out of nothing. In which regard he
le? the “ everlasting Father” (Isa. ix. 6), as being the eiiicient
_ ix.-6 _
 
'\§>§‘\£\\%

