82 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTE.
of creation; as God is called the Father of the rain, or as father is
taken for the inventor of an art; as J ubal, the first framer and in-
ventor of music, is called “the father of such as handle the harp"
(Gen. iv. 21 _ And that Person is said to “make the sea, and form
the dry land by his hands” (Ps. xcv. 5, 6) against whom we are ex
horted not to harden our hearts, which is applied to Christ by the
apostle (Heb. iii. 8); in ver. 6, he is called “ a great King,” and a
great God our Maker.” The places wherein the creation is attributed
to Christ, those that are the antagonists of his Deity, would evade
by understanding them of the new, or evangelical, not of the first;
o d material creation: but what appearance is there for such a sense
Consider
(L) That of Hebfi. 10, 11, it is spoken of that earth and heavens
whie were in the beginnin of time- it is that earth shall perish,
that heaven that shall be folded up, thht creation that shall grow old
towards a decay' that is, only the visible and material creation: the
spiritual shall eniiure forever; it grows not old to decay, but grows
Etc a perfection; it sprouts up to its happiness, not to its detriment
e same Person creates that shall destroy, and the same world is
greated by him that shall be destroyed by him, as well as it subsisted
y virtue of his omni tency.
(2.) Can that also (gdb. i. 2), “ Bly whom also he made the worlds,”
spsaking ogCh1'i§t, bear the slams lp ea? It,was the same Person by
w om “Go spa e to us in t ese ast times, ’the same Person whi-
he hath constituted “ Heir of all things, by whom also he made the
worldsz" and the particle also, intimates it to be a distinct act from
his speaking or dprophetical oiiice, whereby he restored and new
created the worl , as well as the rightful foundation God had to
make him “Heir of all things.” It 1?8f8l`S likewise, not to the time
of Christ’s speaking upon earth, but to something past, and some-
thing dilferent from the publication of the gospel: it is not “ doth
make,” which had been more likely if the apostle had meant only
the new creation; but “hath made,”‘1 referring to time long since
past, something done before his appearance upon earth asa Prophet:
“By whom alsobhe made the wqrlds,”»or ages, all things subjected
to or measured y time' which must be meant acco ing to the
Jéwish phrase of this mtiterita visible world: so they entitle stag:
their Liturgy the “Lord of Aves,” that is the Lord of the worl
and all ages and revolutions ofothe world, from the creation to this
last perio of time. If an hing were in bein before this frame o
heaven and earth, and within the compass of gmc, it received being
and duration from the Son of God. he apostle would give an ar-
gument to prove the equity of making him Heir of all things as
Mediator, because he was the framer of all things as God. He may
well be the Heir or Lord of angels as well as men, who created
angels as well as men: all things were justly under his pow~r as
Mediator, since they derived their existence from him as Creatdr.
(3.) But what evasion can there be for that (Col. i. 16)? “ By him
were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth,
whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers,
4 énoianv.

