on 'mn rownn or con. 83
all things were created by him and for him.” He is said to be the
Creator of material and visible things, as well as spiritual and invis-
ible; of things in heaven, which needed no restoration, as well as
things on earth, which were lluted b sin, and stood in need of a
new creation. How could the) angels belong to the new creation,
who had never put off the honor and purity of the first? Since they
never divested t emselves of their original integrity, they could not
be reinvested with that which they never lost, Besides, suppose the
holy angels be one way or other reduced as parts of the new crea
tion, as being under the mediatory government of our Saviour, as
their Head, and in regard of their confirmation by him in that happy
state. In what manner shall the devils be ranked among new crea-
tures? They are called (principalities and powers as well as the
angels, and may come un er the title of thin invisible: that they
are called principalities and wers is plain (ilsph. vi. 12): “ For we
wrestle not against flesh ang() blood, but against principalities and
powers, and the rulers of the darkness of this world; against spiritual
wickedness in high places.” Good angels are not there meant, for
what war have believers with them, or the with believers? They
are the guardians of them, since Christ hath taken away the enmity
between our Lord and theirs, in whose quarrel they were engaged
against us: and since the apostle, speaking of “all thin created by
him," expremeth it so, that it cannot be conceived he shgould except
anything; how come the Hnally im enitent and unbelievers, which
are things in earth, and visible, to be listed here in the roll of new
creatures? None of these can be called new creatures, because the
are subjected to the government of Christ; no more than the earth
and sea, and the animals in it, are made new creatures, because they
are all under the dominion of Christ and his plrovidential govern-
ment. Again, the apostle manifestly makes t e creation he here
speaks of, to be the material, and not the new creation; for that he
Speaks of aherwards as a distinct act of our Lord Jesus, under the
title of Reconciliation (Col. i. 20, 21), which was the restoration of
the world, and the satisfying for that curse that lay upon it. His
intent is here to show that not an angel in heaven, nor a creature
upon earth, but was placed in their several degrees of excellenc by
the power of the Son of God, who, after that act of creation, and the
entrance of sin, was the “ reconciler” of the world through the blood
of his cross.
(4.) There is another place as clear (John i. 3); “All things were
made by him, and without him was nothing made that was made.”
The creation is here ascribed to him; affirmatively, “ All things
were made by him ;" negatively, there was nothing made without
him: and the words are emphatical, 060% !»', not one thing; exoeptf
mg nothing; including invisible things, as well as things conspicu-
ous to sense only, mentioned in the story of the creation (Gen. i.);
not only the entire mass, but the distinct parcels, the smallest worm
andthe highest angel, owe their original to him. And if not one
thing, then the matter was not created to his hands; and his work
consisted not only in the forming things from that matter: if that
one thing of matter were excepted, a chief thing were excepted; if

