84 cnaiuvocx ON run Arraisurns.
nm one thing were excepted, then he created something of nothing
because spirits, as angels and souls, are not made of any pre-existing
or fore-created matter. How could the evangelist phrase it more
extensively and comprehensively? This is a character of Omnipo-
tency; to create the world, and everything in it, of nothigg, requires
an iniinite virtue and power. If all things were crea by Him,
they were not created by him as man, because himself, as man, was
not in being before the creation; if all things were made b him,
then himself was not made, himself was not created; and to be ex-
istent without being made, without being created, is to be unbound-
edly omnipotent. And i.f we understan it of the new creation, as
they do that will not allow him an emstence in his Deity before his
humanity, it cannot be true of that; for how could he regenerate
Abraham, make Simeon and Anna new creatiues, who “ waited for
the salvation of Israel,” and form John Baptist, and till him with the
Holy Ghost, even from the womb (Luke i. 15), who belonged to the
new creation, and was to repare the way, if Christ had not a beinv
before him? The evangelist alludes to, and explains the history of
the creation, in the beginning, and acquaints us what was meant by
God, said so often, mia. the eternal Word, and describes him in his
creative power, manifested in the framing the world, before he de-
scribes him in his incarnation, when he came to la the foundation
of the restoration of the world (John i. 14), “The €Vord was made
flesh ;" this Word who was “with God, who was God, who made all
things,” and gave being to the most glorious angels and the meanest
creatine without exce tion ; this Word, in time, “was made iiesh."
(5.) The creation oi) things mentioned in these Scriptures cannot
be attributed to him as an instrument. As if when it is said., “ God
created all thin by him, and by him made the worlds,” we were to
understand the gather to be the agent, and the Son to be a tool in
his Father’s hand, as an axe in the hand of a carpenter, or a Hle in
the hand of a smith, or a servant acting by command as the organ
of his master. The preposition per, or 01151, doth not always signify
an instrumental cause: when it is said, that the apostle gave the
Thessalonians a command “ by Jesus Christ” (1 T ess. iv. 2), was
Christ the instrument., and not the Lord of that command the apostle
gave? The immediate operation of Christ dwelling in the apostles,
was that whereby they gave the commands to their disciples. When
we are called “by God’ (1 Cor. i. 9), is he the instrurruental, or prin-
cipal cause of our effectual vocation? And can the will of God be
the instrument of putting Paul into the apostleship, or the sovereign
cause of investing him with that dignity, when he calls himself an
“Apostle by the will of God” (Eph. i. 3)? And when all thingsare
said to be through G-od, as well as of him, must he be coimted the
instrumental cause of his own creation, counsels, and judgments
(Rom. xi. 36)? When we “ mortify the deeds of the body through
the Spirit (Rom.   13), or keep the “treasure of the word by t_e
Holy Ghost” (2 Tim. i. 14), is the Hogiy Ghost of no more dignity in
such acts than an instrument? Nor oth the gaining a thing by B
person make him a mere instrument or inferior; as when a Illtill
gains his right in a way of justice against his adversary by the magm-

