ON 'mn Powsn orfeo: 85
trate, is the judge inferior to the suppliant? If the Word were' an
instrument in creation, it must be a created or uncreated instrument:
if created, it could not be true what the Evangelist saith, that “all
things were made by him,’ since himself, the principal thing, could
not be made by himself: if uncreated, he was God, and so acted by
a Divine omnipotency, which surmounts an instrumental cause.
But, indeed, an instrument is impossible in creation, since it is
wrought only by an act of the Livine will. Do we need any organ
to an act o volition? The efficacious will of the Creator is the
cause of the original of the bod of the world, with its particular
members and exact harmony. lt was formed “by a word, and es-
tablished by a command” (Ps. xxxiii. 9); the beauty of the creation
stood up at the precept of his will. Nor was the Son a partial cause;
as when many are said to build a-house, one works one part, and an-
other frames another part: God created all things by the immediate
operation of the Son, in the unity of' essence, goodness, ower, wis-
dom; not an extrinsic, but a connatural instrument. Xa the sun
doth illustrate all things by his light, and quickens all things by his
heat, so God created the worlds by Christ, as he was the “brightness
or splendor of his glory, the exact image of his person ;" which f`ol~
lows the declaration of his making the worlds by him (Heb. i. 3, 4),
to show, that he acted not as an instrument, but one in essential con-
junction with him, as light and brightness with the sun. But sup-
he did make the world as a kind of instrument, he was then
Ezidre the world, not bounded by time; and eternity cannot well be
conceived belonging to a Being without omni otency. He is the
End, as well as the Author, of the creatures (Cibl. i. 16); not only
the principle which' gave them being, but the sea, into whose glory
they run and dissolve themselves, which consists not with the mean-
ness of an instrument.
2d. As creation, so preservation, is ascribed to Him (Col. i. 17).
“By him all things consist.” As he preceded all things in his eter-
nity, so he establishes all things by his omnipotency, and fixes them in
their several centres, that they sink not into that nothing from
whence he fetched them. By him they flourish in their several be-
ings. and observe the laws and orders he first appointed: that power
of his which extraeted them from insensible nothing, upholds them
in their several beings with the same facility as he spake being into
them, even “ by the word of his power” (Heb. i. 3), and by one crea-
tive continued voice, called all generations, from the beginning to
the period of the world (Isa. xli. 4), and causes them to flourish in
their several seasons. It is “by him kings reign, and princes decree
justice,” and all things are confined within the limits o government.
All which are acts of an Infinite Power.
3d. Resurrection is also ascribed to Him. The body crumbled to
dust, and that dust blown to several quart/ers ofthe world, cannot be
gathered in its distinct parts, and new formed for the entertainment
of the soul, without the strength of an ininite arm. This he will do,
and more; change the vileness of an earthly body into the glory of
an heavenly one; a dusty flesh into a spiritual body, which is an ar-
gument of a power invincible, to which all things cannot but stoop;

