86 CHARNOCK ON THE srrmnvrrzs. _
for it is by such an piperation, which testifies an ability “ to subdue
all things to himse ” (Phil. iii. 21), especially when he works it
with the same ease as he did the creation, b the power of his voice.
(John v. 28), “ All that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and
shall come forth :" s eaking them into a. restored life from inseusihle
dust, as he did into Being from an empty nothing. The greatest acts
of power are owned to belong to creation, preservation, resurrection.
Omnipotence, therefore, is his right; and, therefore, a Deity cannot
be denied to him that inherits a perfection essential to none but God,
and impossible to be entrusted in, or managed by the hands of any
creatures. .And this is no mean comfort to those that believe in him:
he is, in regard of his power, “ the horn of salvation ;" so Zacharias
sings of 'him (Luke i. 69). Nor could there be any more mighty
found out upon whom God could have “laid our help” (Ps. lxx::L‘<.
19). No reason, therefore, to doubt his ability to save to the utmost,
who hath the power of creation, preservation, and resurrection in his
hands. His promises must be accom lished, since nothing can resist
him: he hath ower to fulfil his worth) and bring all things to a final
issue, because he is Almight : by his outstretched arm in the de-
liverance of his Israel from Egypt, (for it was his arm, 1 Cor. x.)rhe
showed that he was able to deliver us from slpiritual Egypt. he
charge of Mediator to expiate sin, vanquish he , form a c urch, con-
duct and perfect it, are not to be effected by a person of less ability
than ininite. Let this almi htiness of His be the bottom, wherein
to cast and tix the anchor og our ho s.
Imtru/ct. 2. Hence may be inferredw the Deig' of the Holy Ghost.
Works of omnipotency are ascribed to the pirit of God: by the
motion of the wings of this Spirit, as a bird over her eggs, was that
rude and unshap\en mass hatched into a comely world! The stars,
-or perhaps t e an els, are meant by the “ garnishing of the
heavens” in the verseiefore the text,-were brought forth in their
:omeliness and dignity, as the ornaments of the upper world, by this
Spirit; “ By his Spirit he hath garnished the heavens.” To this
Spirit Job ascribcs the formation both of the body and soul, under
the title of Almighty (Job xxxiii. 4), “The Spirit of God hath made
me, and the breath of the Almighty hath iven me life.” Resurrec-
tion, another work of omnipotency, is attriuted to him (Rom. viii.
11). The conception of om' Saviour in the womb; the miracles
that he wrought, were by the power of the Splirit in him. Power is
a title belonging to him, and sometimes bot are put together (1
Thess. i. 5, and other places). And that great power of changing
the heart, and sanctifying a polluted nat1u'e, a work greater than
creation, is frequently acknowledged in the Scripture to be the pe-
culiar act of the Holy Ghost. The Father, Son, Spirit, areone priu-
ciple in creation, resurrection, and all the works of omnipotence.
Instrwst. 3. Inference from the doctrine. The blessedness of God
is hence evidenced. If God be Almighq, he can want nothing;
all want speaks weakness. If he doth w at he will, he cannot
miserable; all misery consists in those things which happen contrary
to our will. There is nothing can binder his happiness, because no~
' Gen. i. 2. So the word “moved” properly  

