oN THE Pownn or con. 87
thing can resist his power. Since he is omnipotent, nothing can
hurt him, nothing can strip him of what he hath, of what he is.° If
hecan do whatsoever he will, he cannot want anything that he
wills He is as ha py, as great, as glorious, as he will ; for he hath
a perfect liberty of? will to will, and a (perfect power to attain what
he will; his will cannot be restraine , nor his power meted. It
would be a defect in blessedness, to will what he were not able to
do: sorrow is the result of a want of power, with a presence of
will. If he could will anything which he could not effect, he would
be miserable, and no longer God: he can do whatsoever he pleases,
and therefore can want nothing that pleases him! He cannot be
hapqy; the original of whose happiness is not in himself: nothing
can infinitelv happy, that is limited and bounded.
Instnwt. 4. Hence is the ground for the immutability of God. .As
he is incapable of changing his resolves, because of his infinite wis-
dom, so he is incapable of being forced to anyechange, because of
his infinite power. Being almighty, he can no more changed
from power to weakness; than, being all-wise, he can be changed
from wisdom to folly; or, being omniscient, from knowledge to
ignorance. He cannot be altered in his purposes, because of his
wisdom; nor in the manner and method of his » actions, because of
his infinite strength. Men, indeed, when their designs are laid deep~
est, and their purposes stand firmest, yet are forced to stand still, or
change the manner of the execution of their resolves, by reason of
some outward accidents that obstruct them in their course; for, hav-
ing not wisdom to foresee iiiture hindrances, they have not power
to prevent them, or strength to remove them, when they unexpect-
edly interpose themselves between their desire and performance;
but no created power has strength enough to be a bar against God.
By the same act of his will that he resolves a thing, he can puff
away any impediments that seem to rise up against him. He that
wants no means to effect his (purposes, cannot be checked by any-
thing that riseth up to stan in his way; heaven, earth, sea, the
deepest places, are too weak to resist his will (Ps. cxxxv.   The
purity of the angels will not, and the devil’s malice cannot, rustrate
is will; the one voluntarily obeys the beck of his hand, and the
other is vanquished b the ower of it. What can make him change
his purposes; who he please) can dash the earth against the
heavens in the twi ing of an eye, untying the world from its cen-
tre, clap the stars and elements together into one mass, and blow the
whole creation of men and devils into nothing? Because he is al-
mighty, therefore he is immutable.
Instruct. 5. Hence is inferred the providence of God, and his gov-
ernment of the world. His power, as well as his wisdom, gives him
aright to govern: nothing can equal him, therefore nothing can
share the command with him; since all things are his works, it is
fittest they should be under his order: he that f"ames a work, is
dttest to guide and govern it. God hath the most right to govern,
because he hath knowledge to direct his power, and power to exe-
cute the results of his wisdom: he knows what is convenient to or-
- sabtmde, at aa. ¢ Pont. Pm VL mea. 1e.p.saL _

