88 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
der, and hath strength to effect what he orders. As his power would
be oppressive without goodness and wisdom, so his goodness and
wisdom would he fruitless without power. An artilicer that hath
lost his hands may direct, but cannot make an engine : a pilot that
hath lost his arms may advise the way of steerage, but cannot hold
the helm; something is wanting in him to be a complete govemor:
but since both counsel and power are iminite in God, hence results
an infinite right to govern, and an infinite fitness, because his will
cannot be resisted, his power cannot be enfeebled or diminished; he
can quicken; and increase the strength of all means as he pleases
He can hold all things in the world together, and preserve them in
those functions wherein he settled them, and conduct them to those
ends for which he designed them. Every artiflcer, the more excel-
lent he is, and the more excellency of power appears in his work, is
the more careful to maintain and cherish it. Those that deny Provi-
dence, do not only ravish from him the bowels of his goodness, but
strip him of a main exercise of his power, and engender in men a
sus icion of weariness and feebleness in him; 'as though his strength
had) been s ent in making them, that none is left to guide them.
They would make him headless in regard of his wisdom, and bowel-
less in regard of his goodness, and arrnless in regard of his strength
If he did not, or were not able to preserve and provide for his crea-
tures, his power in making them would be, in a great part, an in-
visible power; if he did not preserve what he made, and govern
what he preserves, it would be a kind of strange and rude power,
to make, and suffer it to be dashed in pieces at the pleasure of others.
If the ower of God should relinquish the world., the life of things
would he extinguished, the fabric would be confounded, and tiill
into a deplorable chaos. That which is composed of so many va-
rious pieces, could not maintain its union, if t ere were not a secret
virtue binding them together and maintaining those varieties of
links. Well, then, since G-od is not only so good, that he cannot
will anything but what is good; so wise, that he cannot err or mis-
take; but also so able, that he cannot be defeated or mated; he
hath every way a full ability to govern the world: where those
three are infinite, the right and fitness resulting from thence is un-
questionable : and, indeed, to den God this active part of his
power, is to render him weak, foolish, cruel, or all.
Irwtruct. 6. Here is a ground for the worship of God. Wisdom
and power are the grounds of the respect we give to men; they be
ing both infinite in God, are the foundation of a solemn honor to
be returned to him by his creatures. If a man makes a curious en-
gine, we honor him for his skill; _if another vanquish a vigorous
enemy,we admire him for his strength: and shall not the efiieacy
of God’s power in creation, government, redemption, enflame us
with a. sense of the honor of his name and perfections? We admire
those princes that have vast empires, numerous armies, that have a
power to conquer their enemies, and preserve their own people in
peace. How much more ground have we to pay a mighty rever-
ence to God, who, without trouble and weariness, made and rnanaffcs
this vast empire of the world by a word and beck! What sensihle

