ON THE Powsn or con. 89
thoughts have we of the noise of thunder, the power of the sun, the
storms of the seal These things that have no understanding have
struck men with such a reverence, that many have adored them as
gods. What reverence and adoration doth this mighty wer, join-
ed with an infinite wisdom in God, demand at our handldl All re-
ligion and worship stands esplecially upon two pillars, goodness, and
power in God; if either of t ese were defective, all religion would
aint away. W`e can expect no entertainment with him without
goodness, nor any benefit from him without power. This God pre-
aceth to the command to worship him, the benefit his goodness rad
conferred u on them, and the werful manner of conveyance of it
to them (2 llings xvii. 36): “The Lord brought you up from the
land of Egypt with great ower, and an out-stretched arm ; him
shall you fear, and him shall) you worship, and to him shall you do
sacrifice. Because this attribute is a main foundation of rayer, the
Lord’s Prayer is concluded with a doxology of it, “For tlhine is the
kingdom, the wer, and the glory." As he is rich, possessing all
blessings; so li); is powerful, to confer all blessings on us, and make
them eiiicacious to us. The Jews repeat many times in their prayers,
some sa an hundred times, u'>u-ri -:B-n, “The King of the world ;”
it is both an awe and an encouragement." We could not, without
consideration of it, pray in faith of success; nay, we could not pray
at all, if his power were defective to help us, an his mercy too wea
torelieve us. Who would solicit a lifeless, or lie a prostrate sup-
piliant, to a feeble arm? Upon this ability of God, our Saviour
ilt his petitions (Heb. v. 7): “ He offered up) strong cries unto
Him that was able to save him from death.” A raham s faith hung
upon the same string (Rom. iv. 21), and the captived church sup-
picates God to act according to the greatness of his power (Ps.
xxix. 11). In all our addresses this is to be eyed and considered;
God is able to help, to relieve, to ease me, let my misery be never
so great, and my strength never so weak (Matt. viii. 221: “ If thou
wilt, thou canst make me clean, was the consideration t e leper had
when he came to worship Christ; he was clear in his power, and
therefore worshipped him, though he was not equally clear in his
will. All worship is shot wrong that is not directed to, and con-
ducted by, the thoughts of this attribute, whose assistance we need.
When we beg the pardon of our sins, we should eye mercy and
power; when we beg his righting us in any case where we are un-
justly oppressed, we do not eye righteousness without power; when
we plead the performance of his promise, we do not regard his
faithfulness only without the prop of his power. As power ushers
in all the attributes of God in their exercise and manifestation in the
world, so should it be the butt our eyes should be fixed upon in all
our acts of worship: as without his power his other attributes would
be useless, so without due apprehensions of his power our prayers
will be faithless and comfortless. The title in the Lord’s prayer di-
rects us to a prospect both of his goodness and power; his goodness
in the word ather, his greatness, excellency, and power, in the word
Heaven. The heedless consideration of the infiniteness of this pen
' Capel in 1 Tim. i. 17.*

