90 CHARNOCK ON 'mn Awnmurss.
fection roots up (piety in the midst of us, and makes us so carelesl
in worship. Di we more think of that Power that raised the world
out of nothing, that orders all creatures by an act of his will, that
performed so great an exploit as that of our redemption, when mas-
terless sin had triumphed over the world, we shou d give God the
honor and adoration which so great an excellency challenveth and
deserves at our hands, though we ourselves had not been ilie work
of his hands, or the monuments of his strength; how could any
creature engross to itself that reverence from us which is due tothe
powerful Creator, of whom it comes infinitely short in strength an
well as wisdom?
Imtrewt. 7. From this we have a ground for the belief of the re-
surrection. God aims at the glory of his power, as well as the glory
of any other attribute. Moses else wou d not have culled out this
as the main argument, in his leading with God, for the sheathing
the sword which he began to draw out against them in the wilder-
ness (Numb. xiv. 16): “The nations will say, Because the Lord
was not able to bring these people into the land which he swarc to
them,” &c. As the finding out the particulars of the dust of our
bodies discovers the vastness of his knowledge, so to raise them will
manifest the glory of his power as much as creation; bodies that
have mouldered away into multitudes of atoms, been resolved into
the elements, assed through varieties of changes, been sometimes
the matter to llddge the form of a plant, or been turned into the sub-
stance of a Hsh or fowl, or vapore up into a cloud, and been part
of that matter which hath compacted a thunder-bolt, dis l of in
places far distant, scattered biy the winds, swallowed and concocted
beasts; for these to be ca led out from their diiierent places of
abode, to meet in one body, and be restored to their former consist-
ency, in a marriage union, in the “twinkling of an eye" (1 Cor. xv.
22), it is a consideration that may justly amaze us, and our shallow
understandings are too feeble to comprehend it. But is it not credi-
ble, since all the disputes against it may be silenced by reflections on
Infinite Power, which nothing can oppose, for which nothing can he
esteemed too difficult to effect, which doth not im ly a contradiction
in itself ? It was no less amazing to the blessed) virgin to hear a
message that she should conceive a Son without knowing a man;
but she is quickl answered, by the angel, with a “Nothing is im-
possible to God" (iluke i. 34, 37). The distinct parts off our bodies can-
not be hid from his all-seeing eye, wherever they are lodged, and in
all the changes they pass through, as was discoursed when the
Omniscience of God was handled ; shall, then, the collection of them
together be too hard for his invincible power and strength, and the
uniting all those parts into a bod , with new dis ositions to receive
their several souls, be too big and, bulky for that ldower which never
et was acquainted with any bar? ~ W'as not the miracle of our
gavioufs multiplying the loaves, suppose it had not been by a new
creation, but a collection of grain from several parts, very near as
stupendous as this? Had any one of us been the onlv creatures
made just before the matter of the world, and beheld that inform
chaos covered with a thick darkness, mentioned Gen. i. 2, would not

