ON 'run rownn or con. 91
the report, that from this dark deep, next to notl ing, should be
raised such a multitude of eomely creatures, with such in oumerable
varieties of members, voices, colors, motions, and such numbers of
shining stars, a, bright sun, one uniform body of light from this
darkness, that should, like a giant, rejoice to run a race, for many
thousands of years together, without stop or wearinem; would not
all these have seemed as incredible as the collection of scattered
dust? What was it that erected the innumerable host of heaven,
the glorious angels, and glittering stars, for aught we know more
numerous than the bodies of men, but an act of the Divine will?
and shall the power that wrought this sink under the charge of
gaiihering some dispersed atoms, and compacting them into a human
ody? Can Log tell how the dust of the ground was kneaded by
G into the y of man, and changed into flesh, skin, hair, bones,
sinetvs, veins, arteries, and blood, and Htted for so many several ac-
tivitiw, when ahuman soul was breathed into it ?* Can you imagine
how a rib, taken from Adam’s side, a lifeless bone, was formed into
head,_ hands, feet, eyes? Why ma not the matter of men, which
have been, be restored, as well as that which was not, be first erect-
ed? ls it harder to repair those things which were, than to create
those thin which were not? Is there not the same Artifioer?
Hath any   or sickliness abated his power? Is the Ancient
of Da s grown feeble? or shall the elements, and other creatures,
that alivay yet obeyed his command, rufile against his raising voice,
and refuse to disgorge those remains of human bodies they have
swallowed up in their several bowels? Did the whole world, and
all the parts of it, rise at his word? and shall not some parts of the
world, the dust of the dead, stand up out of the graves at a word of
the same mighty eilicacy? Do we not annually see those marks oi
power which may stun our incredulity in this concern? Do you
see in a small acorn, or little seed, any such sights, as a tree with
body, bark, branches, leaves, iiowers, fruit-where can ou find
them? Do you know the invisible corners where they lurl; in that
little body? And yet these you afterwards view rising up from this
little body, when sown in the ground, that you could not possibly
have any prospect of when you rolled it in your hand, or opened
its bowels. And why may not all the particulars of our bodies,
however disposed as to their distinct natures invisibly to us, remain
distinct, as well as if you mingle a thousand seeds together? they
will come up in their distinct kinds, and preserve their distinct vir-
tues. Again, is not the making heaven and earth, the union of the
Divine and human nature, eternity and innrmit , to make a virgin
conceive a Son, bear the Creator, and bring fortli the Redeemer, to
form the blood of God of the iiesh of a virgin, a greater work than
the calling together and uniting -the scattered parts of our bodies,
which are all of one nature and matter? And since the power of
God is manifested in pardoning innumerable sins, is not the scatter-
ing our transgressions, as far as the east is from the west, as the ex-
pression is, Ps. ciii. 12, and casting such numbersinto the depths of
the sw., which is God’s power over himself a greater argument of
l l Lingeud. Tom. III. pp. 779, 780.

