92 CHABNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
might than the recalling and repairing the atoms of our bodies from
their various receptacles? It is not hard for them to believe this
vof the resurrection, that have been sensible of the weight and force
. of their sins, and the power of God in pardoning and vanquishing
that mighty resistance which was made in their hearts against the
power of his renewing and sanctifying grace. The consideration of
the iniinite power of God‘is a good ground of the belief of the re
surrection.
Instruct. 8. Since the power of God is so great and incomprehen-
sible, how strange is it that it should be contemned and abused by
the creatures as it isl The power of God is beaten down by some,
outraged by others, blasphemed by many, lmder their suferings.
The stripping God of the honor of his creation, and the glor of his
preservation of the world, falls 'under this charge: thus db they
that deny his framing the world alone, or thought the first matter
was not of God’s creation, and such as fancied an evil principle, the
author of all evil, as God is the author of all good, and so exempt
from the power of God, that it could not be vanquished by- him.
These things have formerly found defenders in the world; but they
are, in themselves, ridiculous and vain, and have no footing in com-
mon reason, and are not worthy of debate in a christian auditory.
In general, all idolatry ‘in the world did arise from the want ofa
due notion of this Infinite Power. The heathen thought one God
was not sufiicient for the managing all things in the world, and
therefore they feigned several gods, that had several charges; as
Ceres presided over the fruits of the earth; Esculapius over the
cure of distempers; Merciuy for merchandise and trade; Mars for
War and battles; A ollo and Minerva for learning and ingenious
arts; and Fortune tllr casual things. Whence doth the other sort
of idolatry, the adoring our bags and gold, our dependencies on, and
trusting in, creatures for help arise,.but from ignorance of God’s
power, or mean and slender apprehensions of it? First, there is a
contempt of it. Secondly, An abuse of it.
1. It is contemned in every sin, especially in obstinacy in sin.
All sin whatsoever is built upon some false notion or monstrous
conception of one or other of Grod’s perfectiofns, and in particular of
this. It includes a secret and lurking imagination, that we are able
to grapple with Omnipotence, and enter the lists with Almightiness
what else can be judged of the a ostle’s expression (1 Cor. x. 22),
“Do we provoke the Lord to jealbusy; are we stronger than he ?”
Do we think we have an arm too powerful for that justice we pro-
voke, and can repel that vengeance we exasperate? Do we think
we are an even match for God, and are able to despoil him of his
Divinity? To despise his will, violate his order, practise what he
forbids with a severe threatening, and pawns his pofwer to make it
good, is to pretend to have an arm like,God, and be able to thunder
with a voice equal or superior to him, as the expression is (Job
xl. 9). All security in sin is of this strain; when men are l10t
concerned at Divine thleatenings, nor staggered in their sinful
race, they intimate, that the declarations of Divine Power are but
vain-glorious boastings; that God is not so strong and able as he

