ON 'ms Powsn or een. 98
reports himself to be; and therefore they will venture it, and dare
him to try, whether the strength of his arm be as forcible as the
words of his mouth are terrible in his threats; this is to believe
themselves Creators, not creatures. We magnify God’s power in
our wants, _and debase it in our rebellions; as though Omnipotence
were only able to supply our necessities, and unable to revenge
the inj uries we offer him.
2. This power is contemned in distrust of God. All distrust is
founded in a doubting of his truth, as if he would not be as good as
his word; or of his omniscience, as if he had not ai memory to re-
tain his word; or of his power, as if he could not be as great as his
word. We measure the infinite power of God by the short line of
our understandings, as if infinite strength were bounded within the
narrow compass of our finite reason ; `as if he could do no more
than we were able to do. How soon did those Israelites lose the
remembrance of God’s outstretched arm, when they uttered that
atheistical speech (Ps. lxxviii. 19), “ Can God furnish a table in the
wi1derness?’ As if he that turned the dust of Egypt into lice, for
the punishment of their oppressors, could not turn the dust ofthe wil-
derness into corn, for the su port of their bodies! As if he that
had miraculouslty rebuked the Red Sea, for their safety, could not
Erovide bread, or their nourishment! Though they had seen the
gyptians with lost lives in the morning, in the same place where
their lives had been miraculously preserved in the evening, yet they
disgrace that experimental power, by opposing to it the stature of
the Aiitkimt, the iititiigtii of their cities, and the height of their
walls (Numb.   32). And (Numb. xiv. 3). “ Wherefore hath
the Lord brought us into this land to fall by the sword?" As though
the giants of Canaan were too strong for Him, for whom they had
seen the armies of Egypt too weak. How did they contract the
almightiness of God into the littleness of a little man, as if he must
needs sink under the sword of a Canaanite? This distrust must
anse either from a flat atheism, a denial of the being of God, or his
Epgernment of the world; or unworthy conceits of a weaknes in
, that he had made creatures too hard for himself; that he were
uct strong enough   grakpple with those mighty Anakims, and
give them the possession o Canaan against so great a force. Dis-
trust of him implies either that he was always destitute of power, or
that his power is exhausted by his former works, or that it is limited,
and near a period: it is to den him to be the Creator that moulded
heaven and earth. Why should we, by distrust, put a slight upon
that power which he hath so often expressed, and which, in the
migutest Xgplrkp of his hands, surmount the force of the sharpest
un eistan ` g
tl. It is contemned in too great a fear of man, which ariseth from
adistrust of Divine power. Fear of man is a crediting the might
of man with a. disrepute of the arm of God, it takes away the glory
of his might, and renders the creature stronger than God; and God
more fee le than a mortal; as if the arm of rnan were a rod of iron,
and the arm of God a brittle reed. How often do men tremble at
the threatenings and hectorings of ruiiians, yet will stand as stakes

