'~ ON 'ran Powzn or Gov. 95
deities. It is to set a pile of dust, a heap of ashes, above Him that
created and preserves the world. '1‘o trust in a creature, is *D make
it as infinite as God; to do that which is impossible in it'-'I' to be
done. God himself cannot make a creature irifinite, 1°   that were
to make him God. It is also contemned when we nscrite what we
receive to the power of instruments, and not to the power of God.
Men, in whatsoever they do for us, are but the tools whereby the
Creator works. Is it not a disgrace to the limncr to admire his
pencil, and not himself; to the artificer, to admire his file and en-,
gines, and not his power? “It is not I,” saith Paul, “that labor,
utthe grace, the eliicacious grace of God, which is in me.” What~
soever good we do is from him, not from ourselves; to ascribe it to
ourselves, or to instruments, is to overlc ok and cont/emn his ower.
5. Unbelief of the gosipel is a contempt and disowning Iilivine
power. This perfection ath been discovered in the concelption of
hrist, the union of the two natures, his resurrection from t ic grave,
the restoration of the world, and the conversion of men, more than
in the creation of the World: then what a disgrace is unbelief to al]
that power that so severely punished the Jews tbr the rejecting the
gospel: t1u'ned so manty natiomr from their beloved superstitious;
umbled the power o prince., and the wisdom of philosophers;
chased devils from their temples by the weakness of fishermen;
planted the standard of the gospel against the common notions and
inveterate customs of the world! Vfliat a disgrace is unbelief to
this power which hath preserved Christianity from being extinguish-
ed bythe force of men and devils, and kept it flourishing in the
midst of sword, fire, and executioners; that hath made the simplici-
ty of the gospel overpou-‘fr the eloquence oi' orators, and multiplied
it from the ashes ot' martyrs, when it was destitute of all human as-
sistancesl Not heartily to believe and embrace that doctrine, which
hath been attended with such marks of power, is a high retiection
upon this Divine perliiction. so highly manifested in the first publi-
cation, propagation, and preservation of it.
Secondly, The power of God is abused, as well as contemned. l.
When we make use of it to justify contradictions. ’1‘he doctrine of
tmnsubstantiation is an abuse of this iower. When the maintainers
of it cannot answer the absurdities alleged against it, they have re-
course to the power of God. lt im lies a contradiction, that the
same body should be on earth and in heaven at the same instant of
time; that it should be at the ri ht hand of God, and in the mouth
and stomach of a man; that it ziould be a bod of flesh, and yet
bread to the eye and to the taste; that it shouldybe visible and in~
visible, a glorious body, and yet gpawn by the teeth of a creature;
that it should be multiplied in a t ousand places, and yet an entire
body in every one, where there is no mem er to be seen, no flesh to
betasted; that it should be above us in the hi hest heavens, and
yet within us in our lower bowels; such contladzictions as these me
an abuse of the power of God. Again, we abuse this power when
we hclieve every idle story that is reported, because God is able to
make it so if he leased. We may as well believe 1Ee~op’s Fables to
be true, that birdie spake, and beasts reasoned, because t e power of

