\§§§
\§
96 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES. '
d bl uch creatures to such acts. God’s ,power is n
ul f b 1 f of a thing without the exercise o it in mat
E' t, and the d laration of it upon sufficient evidence.
2. The po f God is abused by presuming on it, without
the meanshe hath appointed. When men sit with folded am
make a confidence in his power a glorious title to their idlene
disobedience, they would have his strength do a.ll, and his p
should move them to do nothing; this is a. trust of his power:
his command, a, pretended gloritying his power with a slight
` ereignty. T ough God be almighty, yet, for the most p
rciseth his might in giving life and success to second caus<
l ful ndeavors. When we stay in the mouth of danger, vi
y ll ordering us to continue, and against a door of prov
p d f ur rescue, and sanctuary ourselves in the power c
th t y promise, without any providence conducting ui
t to l` 'fy the Divin might, but to n l t it, in neglecti
h` h h' power ati' d to cape; to cond
t ur h rs, to work miracl f ording to our wil'
ac, inst h wn.Y God could h t worm to be Herod’
cutioner when he sought t-he life f our Saviour, or employ
angel from heaven to have tied hi h nds or stopped his breat
not ut Joseph upon a flight to Dvypt 'th ur Saviour; yet
not been an abuse ofthe p f br d i J ph to have neg
the, precept, and slighted th G d g ' hi f th pres
his own life and that of th l lds? Chr' t h' lf hen th
consulted to destroy him, p d not up th p r of (
secure him, but used ordinary means for his preservation, by w
no more openly, but retiring himself into a city near the wild
till the hour was come, and the call of his Father manifest"
xi. 53, 54). A rash running upon danger, though for the tri
self, is a presuming upon, and consequently an abuse ni this I
a proud challenging it to serve our turns against the authority
ill, and the force of his recept; a not resting in his oi
p er but demanding his ahsolute power to pleasure our folli
p ptions; concluding and expecting more from it than W
th ed by his will.
I t ct. 9. If inlinite ower be a peculiar property of G04
ble will all wickedp rebels be under this power of God l
3 b ak his laws, but not impair his arm; they may slig
d, but cannot resist his power. If he swear that he will s'
pl ce with the besom of destruction, “as he hath thought, s
it come to pass; and as he hath purposed, so shall it stand,
` 23 24 _ R b 1 `nst earth ` nm. d
mv. , ) e e s agai an y prince y excee
strength, and be more owerful than their sovereign; none cal
God, much less exceed liiim. As none can exercise an act of h<
g inst him without his ermissive will, so none can struggl
der his hand without his positive will. He hath an arm nc
m d a hand not to be wrung aside. God is represented
h 1`k a. “jasper stone” (Rev. iv. 3), as one of invincible
h h mes to judge; the jasper is a stone which withstan
I Harwood, p. 13.

