on 'ms Pownn or con. ` 97
greatest force! Though men resist the order of his laws, they can-
not the sentence of their punishment, nor the execution of it. None
can any more exempt themselves hom the arm of his strength, than
the can from the authority of his dominion. As they must bow
to   sovereignty, so must they sink under his force. A prisoner
in this world may make his escape, but a prisoner in the world to
come cannot (Job x. 7). “There is none that can deliver out of
thine hand." There is none to deliver when he tears in pieces” (Ps.
1. 22). His strength is uncontrollable; hence his throne his repre-
sented as a. “fiery flame” (Dan. vii. 9). As a spark of fire hath
power to kindle one thing after another, and increase till it consumes
a forest, a city, swallow up all combustible matter till it consumes a
world, and many worlds, if they were in being, what power hath the
tree to resist the tire, though it seems mighty, when it outbraves the
winds? \fVhat man, to this day, hath been able to free himself from
that cnain of death God clapped upon him for his revolt? And if
he be too feeble to rescue himself from a temporal, much less from
an eternal death. The devils have, to this minute, groaned under the
pile of wrath, without an success in delivering themselves by all
their strength, which mucli' surmounts all the strength of mankind,
nor have they any ho s to work their rescue to eternity. How
foolish is every sinner lpe Can we poor worms strut it out ainst In-
finite Power? We cannot resist the meanest creatures diem God
commissions them, and uts a sword into their hands. They will
not, no, not the worms, he startled at the glory of a king, when they
have the Creator’s warrant to be his executioners (Acts xii. 23).
Who can withstand him, when he commands the waves and inun~
dations of the sea to lea over the shore; when he divides the
ground in earthquakes, and makes it gape wide to swallow the in-
abitants of it; when the air is corrupted tp breed pestilences;
when storms and showers, unseasonably falling, putrify the fruits
of the earth; what created power can mend the matter, and, with
a prevailing voice, say to him, What dost thou? There are two
attributes God will make glist/er in hell to the full; his wrath
and his power (Rom. ix. 22): “VVhat if God, willing to show
his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much
long suffering the vessels of wrath fitted for destruction?" If it
were mere wrath, and no power to second it, it were not so ter-
rible; but it is wrath and power: both are joined together. It
is not only a sharp sword, but a powerful arm; and not only
thai., for then it were well for the damned creature. To have
many sharp blows, and from a strong arm, this may be without
putting forth the highest strength a man hath; but in this God
makes it his design to make his ower known and conspicuous; he
takes the sword, as it were, in both hands, that he may show the
strength of his arm in striking the harder blow; and therefore the
apostles calls it (2 Thess. i. 9) “the glor of his power," which puts
asting into' his wrath; and it is calledy (Rev. xxx. 15) “the Herce~
ness of the wrath of the Almighty.” God will do it in such a man-
ner as to make men sensible of his almightiness in every stroke.
‘ Grot. in loc.
vox.. rr.-7

