 
is
 
98 cnsruvocx on ran Arramtrrms.
How great must that vengea be, that is backed by all th
of God I When there will be a powerful wrath, without a I
mpassion; when all his power shall be exercised in punish
not the least mite of it exercised in pit ing; how irresistible
the load of such a weighty hand! Hiow can the dust of
ance break the mighty bars, or get out of the lists of a }
vengeance, or hope for any grain of comfort? O, that eve:
nate sinner woul think of this, and consider his unmeasural
ness in thinking himself able to grapple with Omnipotencel
force can any have to resist the presence of Him, before whc
melt, and the heavens, at length, shall be shrivelled up as z
ment by the last fire! As the light of God’s face is too da:
be beheld by us, so _the arm of his ower is too mighty to be
by us. His almightiness is above the reach of our otsherd s
as his innniteness is above the capacity of our purblind und
in . God were not omnipotent, if his power could be rend
effictual by any. ,
Use II. A second use of this point, from the considerati
infinite power of God, is of comfort. As Omnipotence is
that cannot be fathomed, so the comforts from it are str
cannot be exhausted. What joy can be wanting to him th
himself folded in the arms of Omnipotence? This perfe
made over to believers in the ant, as well as any otl:
bute; “I am the Lord, your God therefore, that wer, '
e over more an ot er, ecausei is z
y d th y h b t th
te ry other perfection; and is the Spirit that giv
_ d ppearance in the worl If God had expresse
t d. d
particular, as, “I am a true God, a wise God, a. loving
ghteous God, I am yours ;" what would ll any of th
signiiied, unless the other also had been implied, as, I
mighty God, I am your God T” In God’s making o h'1
y particular attribute, this of his power is included in e
'th whi h ll his other ants would be insivnilican
gf 0
mfort that pow ` in the hands of God; it can never bi
pl ced, for he ca er use his ower to injure his coniidi
ture; ` i were in om' own handh, we mi t usei in'
if t gh t to _]
selves. It is a power in the hands of an indulgent Fathc
d _ _ _ .
hard-hearte tyrant, it is a just power; “His right hand is
righteousness” (Ps. xlviii. 10); because of his righteousness
never use it ill, and because of his wisdom he can never us
seasonably. Men that have strength, often misplace the aci
` , because of their folly; and sometimes emplo it to base e
cause of their wickedness; but this power in Grody is always av
by g dness, and conducted b wisdom; it is never exerc
selfiwill d passion, but according to the immutable rule of
- ~ -h"-h' 'gh H f bl   h'
nature, f teousucss. ow coin orta e is it to t 1
you have a God that can do what he pleases; nothing so ditli
e can eifect, nothing so stron but he can override! YW
not dread ` ce you have gne to restrain them; nor f
-
` l the Godhead as any ther perfection ogohis na
h ghts and extent of it, ass d unto you. Nay, may

