,1_,_v<11-f
ON THE POWER OF GOD.
llllw you have One to chain them; no creature but is acted by tn
power; no creature but must fall upon the withdrawing o this
power. It was not all laid out in creation; it is not weakened by his
preservation of things; he yet hath a fullness of power, and a residue
of Spirit; for whom should that eternal arm of the Lord be displayed,
and that incomprehensible thunder of his power be shot out, but for
those for whose sake and for whose comfort it is revealed in his word?
In particular,
1. Here is comfort in all afflictions and distresses. Our evils can
never be so great to oppress us, as his power is great to deliver us.
The same power that brought a. world out of a. chaos, and constitu-
ted, and hath hitherto preserved, the re lar motion of the stars, can
bring order out of our confusions, andu light out of our darkness.
When our Saviour was in the greatest distress, and beheld the face
of his Father frowning, while he was upon the cross, in his complaint
to him, he exerciseth faith upon his power (Matt. xxviii 46): °“ Eli,
Eli: My God, my God, why ast thou forsaken me 7" that this, My
strong, my strong; El, is a name of power, belonging to God; he
comforts himself in his ower, while he complains of his frowns.
Follow his pattern, and flirget not that power that can scatter the
clouds, as well as gather them together. The Psalmist’s support in
his distress, was in the creative power of God (Ps. cxxi. 2): “My
help comes from the Lord, which made heaven and earth.”
2. It is comfort in all strong and stirring corruptions and mighty
temptations. It is by this we may 9,1111 ourselves, and “be strong in
the power of his mig t" §Eph. vi. 10); b this we may conquer prin-
cipalities and powers, as readful as hell, lllut not so mighty as heaven;
by this we may trium h over lusts within, too strong for an arm of
llc-sh; by this the devds that have possessed us may be cast out; the
battered walls of our souls may be repaired; and the sons of Anak
laid Hat. That power that brought light out of darkness, and over-
mastered the deformity of the chaos, and set bounds to the ocean,
and dried u the Red bca by a rebuke, can uell the tumults in our
spirits, and l)eve1 spiritual Goliahs by his worth. When the disciples
heard that terrifying speech of our Saviour, concerning rich men,
that it was “easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle,
than for a rich man to enter into the kin dom of God” (Matt. xix. 24),
to entertain the gospel, which commanded self-denial; and that, be-
cause of the allurements of the world, and the strong habits in their
soul; Christ refers them to the power of God (ver. 26), who could
expel those ill habits, and plant good ones: “With men this is im-
possible, but with God all things are possible.” There is no resist-
ance, but he can surmount; no strong- old, but he can demolish; no
tower, but he can level.
3. It is comfort from hence, that all promises shall be performed.
Goodness is sufficient to make a promise, but power is ,necessary to
perform a romise. Men that are honest, cannot often make good
their xvortg, because something mav intcrvcne that may shorten
their ability: but nothing can disable God, without diminishing his
godhead. He hath an iniiniteness of power to accomplish his word,
88 well as an inhniteness of goodness to make and utter his word.
s

