ON 'rim Powan or Gen. 101
5. From this attribute of the infinite power of God, we have a
ground of comfort in the lowest estate of the church. Let the state
of the church be never so deplorable, the condition never so desper-
ate, that Power that created the world, and shall raise the bodies of ~
men, can create a happy state for the church, and raise her from an
overwhelming grave; though the enemies trample upon her, they
cannot upon the arm that holds her, which by the least motion of it,
can lift her up above the heads of her adversaries, and make them
feel the thunder of that Power that none can understand: by the
“blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils they are
consumed” (Job iv. 9); they “shall be scattered as chaff before the
wind.” Ifonce he “ draw his hand out of his bosom,” all must Hy
before him, or sink under him (Ps. lxxiv. 113: and when there IS
“none to help, his own arm sustains him, an brings salvation, and
his fury doth uphold him” (Isa. lxiii. 5). What if the church totter
under the underminings of hell? What if it hath a sad heart and
wet eyes? In what a little moment can he make the night turn into
day, and make the Jews, that were preparing for death in Shushan,
triumdgh over the necks of their enemies, and march in one hour with
swor in their hands, that expected the last hour “ ropes about their
necks (Esth. ix. 1, 5)? If Israel be fpursued by Pharaoh, the sea
shall open its arms to protect them: i they be thirsty, a rock shall
spout out water to refresh them: if theyebe hungry, heaven shall be
t eir granary for manna: if Jerusalem besieged, and hath not force
enough to encounter Sennacherib, an angel shall turn the camp into
an Aceldema, a field of blood. His people shall not want deliver-
ances, till God want a power of working miracles for their seciuity:
he is more jealous of his power, than the church can be of her safety.
And if we should want other arguments to press him, we may im~
plore him by virtue of his power: for when there is nothing in the
church as a motive to him to save it, there is enough in his own
name, and “ the illustration of his power” (Ps. cvi. 8). Who can
Egpple with the omnipotency of that God, who is jealous of, and
ous for, the honor of it? And therefore God, for the most part,
takes such opportunities to deliver, wherein his almightiness may be
most cons icuous, and his counsels most admirable. He awakened
not himself to deliver Israel, till they were upon the brink of the
Red Sea; nor to rescue the three children, till they were in the fiery
furnace; nor Daniel, till he was in the lion’s den. It is in the weak-
nes of his creatine that his strength is perfected, not in a way of ad-
dition of perfectness to it, but in a way of manifestation of the per-
fection of it; as it is the perfection of the sun to shine and enlighten
the world, not that the sun receives an increase of light by the dart-
mg of his beams, but discovers his glory to the admiration of men,
and leasure of the world. If it were not for such occasions, the
world) would not regard the mightiness of God, nor know what power
were in him. It traverses the stage in its fulness and liveliness upon
such occasions, when the enemies are strong, and their strength edged
with an intense hatred, and but little time between the contrivance
and execution. It is a great comfort that the lowest distresses of the
church are a fit scene for the discovery of this attribute, and that the
H

