 
102 HARNOCK ON THE A'l'1‘RIBUTES.
lory of God’s omn'potence, and the chureh’s security, are so st;
hnked together. It is a promise that will never be forgotte
God, and ought never to be forgotten by us, that “in this mou
the hand of the Lord shall rest” (Isa. xxv. 10); that is, the pon
the Lord shall abide; and Moab “shall be trodden under him,
as straw is trodden down for the dunghill.” And the “plarrii
Babylon shall come in one day, death, and mourning, and  
for strong is the Lord who judgeth her” (Rev. xviii. 8).
Use III. The third use is for exhortation.
1. Meditate on this power of God, and press it often upon
minds. We conclude many things of God that we do not pract
suck the comfort of; for want of deep thoughts of it, and freque
spection into it. We believe God to be true, yet distrust him
acknowledge him powerful, dyet. fear the motion of every s
Many truths, though assente to in our understandings, are
under hatches by corrupt aifections, and have not their due
, because they are not brought forth into the open air o
souls by meditation. If we will but search our hearts, we shal
it is the power of . God we often doubt of When the heart of
and his subjects trembled at the combination of the Syrian and
elitish kings a ainst him, for want of a confidence in the pow
h . h _ _
God, God semi: his prop et wit commission to work a mirac
sign at his own choice, to rear lip his fainting heart; and whe
refused to ask a sign out of diHi ence of that almighty Powei
pgophet complains of it as an affront to his Master (Isa. vii. li
oses, so great a friend of God, was overtaken with this kind 1
belief, after all the experiments of God’s miraculous acts in E,
th d ` h' if h' be th I
eanswer Gro gives un man estst is to at e core: “
Lord’s hand waxed short” (Numb. xi. 2133? For want of act
thoughts of this, we are malty tim  turne from our known du
the blast of a creature; as ough man had more wer to di
us, than God hath to support us in his commandedmway. Th
lief of Grod’s power is one of the first steps to all religion; wi
settled thoughts of it, W8 cannot pray lively and believingly ft
obtaining the mercies we want, or the averting the evils we fea;
should not love him, unless we are persuaded he hath a pow
bless us; nor fear hi unless we were ersuaded of his pow
punish us. The fr q nt thoughts of this would render our
more stable, and our hopes more stedfast; it would make us
feeble to sin, and more careful to obey. When the virginstag;
at the message of the angel, that she should “bear a Son," he, 3
answer, turns her to the creative power of God (Luke i. 35), _‘
po er of the Highest shall overshadow thee ;" which seems to
ll ion to the Spiritfs moving ufpon the face of the deep, and I
' g a. comely world out of a con used ma.ss. Is it harder for G
make a virgin conceive a Son by the power of his Spirit, th;
make a world? Why doth he reveal himself so o&en unde
title of Alrnight , and ress it upon us, but that we should r
upon ourselves; And) . shall we be forgetful of that whiclib
thing about us, everythin within us, is a mark of ? How con
by a power of seeing andiearing, afaculty, and act of undemtai

