ON 'rim Powsn or con. ~ _ 108
and will, but by this power framing us, this power assisting us?
What though the thunder of his fpower cannot be understood, no
more can any other erfection o his nature; shall we, therefore,
seldom think of it? The sea cannot be fathomed, yet the merchant
excuseth not himself from sailing upon the surface of it. We can-
not glorifv God without due consideration of this attribute; for his
power is his glory as much as any other, and called both by the
name of glory (Rom. vi. 4), speaking of Christ’s resurrection by the
glpry of the ather; and also “the riches of his glory" (Eph. iii. 16).
ose that have strong temptations in their course and over-pressing
corruptions in their hearts, ave need to think of it out of interest,
since nothing but this can relieve them. Those that have ex eri-
mented the workinfr of it in their new creation, are obli ed to think
of it out of gratitude. It was this mi hty power over himself that
gave rise to all that pardoning grace z§ready conferred, or hereafter
expected; without it our souls had been consumed, the world over-
turned; we could not have expected a happy heaven, but have lain
yelling in an eternal hcll, had not the power of his merc exceeded
that of his `ustice, and his infinite power executed what his infinite
wisdom had contrived for our redemption. How much also should
we be raised in our admirations of God, and ravish ourselves in con~
templating that might that can raise innumerable worlds in those in-
finite imaginary spaces without this (globe of heaven and earth, and
exceed inconceivably what he hath one in the creation of this?
2. From the pressing the consideration of this upon ourselves, let
usbe induced to trust God upon the _account of his power. The
main end of the revelation of his power to the patriarchs, and of the
miraculous operations of it in Egypt, was to induce them to an entire
reposing themselves in God: and the Psalmist doth scarce speak of
the Divine Omnipotence without makin this inference from it; and
scarce exhorts to a trust in God, but baclis it with a consideration of
his power in creation, it being the chief support of the soul (Ps.
cxlvi. 1): “ Happ is he whose hope is in the Lord his God, which
made heaven andy earth, the sea, and all that therein is." That
Power is invincible that drew the world out of nothing: nothing can
happen to us harder than the making the world without the concur-
rence of instruments: no dilliculty can nonplus that strength, that
hath drawn all things out of nothing, or out of a confused) matter
next to nothing: no power can rifle what we commit to him (2 Tim.
i. 12). He is all ower, above the reach of all power; all other
powers in the world) flowing from him, or depending on him, he is
worthy to be trusted, since we know him true, without ever breaking
his word; and Omnipotcnt, never failing of his purpose; and a con-
fidence in it is the chief act whereby we can glorify this power, and
credit his arm. A stron God, and a. weak faith in omnipotence, do
not suit well together. Tndeed, we are more englaged to a trust in
Divine power than the ancient patriarchs were; t ey had the verbal
declaration of his power, and many of them little other evidence of
it, than in the creation of the world; and their faith in God being
established in this first discovery of his omnipotence drew out itself
further to believe, that whatsoever eea promised 'by his weed, he

