\
\ 1;
xii
E :~
\_~
k.
_ \
\§
s
\
 
104 _ CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'1'RIBUTES.
was able to perform, as well as the creation of the world ou
nothing; which seems to be the intendrnent of the apostle (Heb. xi
not barely to speak of the creation of the world by God, which
a thing the Hebrews understood well enough from their am
oracles; but to show the foundation of the patriarch’s faith,
God making the world by his Word, and what use they made of
discovery of his power in that, to lead them to believe the pro
of God concerning the Seed of the woman to be brought into
world. But we have not only the same foundation, but superac
demonstrations of this attribute in the conception of our Saviour
union of the two natures, the glorious redemption, the propagz
of the gospel, and the new creation of the wor d. They relied r
the naked ower of God, without those more illustrious appeara
of it, which have been in the ages since, and arrived to their not
we have the wonderful effects of that which they had but obscun
ectations of
P (L) Consider, trust in God can never be without taking in (E
power as a conciurent foundation with his truth. It is the 1
ground of trust, and ' so set forth in the prophet (Isa. xxvi.
“Trust ye in the Lord for ever, for in the Lord Jehovah is ever
ing strengfh.” And the faith of the ancients so recommended (l
xig, had t is chiefly for its ground; and the faith in gospel tim<
ca led a “ trusting on his arm” (Isa. li. 5.) All the attributes of
are the objects of our veneration, but they do not equally contri
to the producing trust in our hearts; his eternity, simplicityg inf:
ness, ravish an astonish our minds when we consider t em;
there is no immediate tendency- in their nature to allure us to a
fidence in him, no, not in an innocent state, much less in a la
and revolt/ed condition: but the other perfections of his natur
his holiness, righteousness, mercy, are amiable to us in regard oi
immediate operations of them upon and about the creature, an
have somethmg in their own nature to allure us to repose curse
in him ; but yet those cannot engage to an entire trust in him r
out reflecting upon his ability, which can only render those u:
and successful to the creature.° For whatsoever bars stand in
way of his holy, righteous, and merciful proceedings towards
creatures, are not overmastered b those perfections, but by
strength of his which can only relieve us m concurrence with
other attributes. How could his rnercysuccor ns without his :
or his wisdom guide us without his hand, or his truth perform
mises to us without his strength? As no attribute can act wit}
it, so in our addresses to him upon the account of any partic
pgrfection in the Godhead according to our indi ency, our eye 1
erpetually fixed upon this of his wer, ang our faith woul
feeble and dispirited witho t eyeing tliihz without this, his holiu
which hates sin, would nolébe regarded; and his mercy, pityin
grieving sinner, would not be valued. As this power is the grc
of a wicked man’s fear, so it is the ground of a good man’s t
This was that which was the principal support of Abraham,
barely his promise, but his abihty to make it good (Rom. iv.
' Amyrmt Moral. Tom. V. p. 170.

