ON 'mn Powsn or son. 105
mo when he was commanded to sacrifice Isaac, the ability of God
to raise him up again (Heb. xi. 19). All faith would droop, and be
in the mire, without leanin upon this; all those attributes which
we consider as moral in Gai would have no influence upon us with-
out this, which we consider physically in God. Though we value
the kindness men may express to us in our distresses, yet we make
them not the objects of our confidence, unless they have an ability
to act what they express. There can be no trust in God without an
eye to his power.
(2.) Sometimes the power of God is the sole object of trust. As
when we have no promise to assure us of his will, we have nothing
else to pitch upon but his ability ; and that not his absolute power,
but his ordinate, in the wa of his providence; we must not trust in
it so as to expect he shoulyddplease our humor with fresh miracles,
but rest u on his ower, an leave the manner to his will. Asa,
when readly to condict with the vast Ethiopian army, pleaded noth-
ing else but this wer of God (2 Chron. xiv. 11). And the three
children, who had() no particular promise of deliverance (that we
read of) stuck to God’s ability to preserve them against the king’s
threatening, and owned it in the face of the king, yet with some
kind of inward intimations in their own s irits, that he would also
deliver them (Dan. iii. 17). “Our God, wlhom we se1've, is able to
deliver us from the burning fiery furnace.” And accordingly the
fire burnt the cords that tied them, without singeing any thing else
about them. But when this power hath been exercised upon like
occasions, it is a precedent he hath given us to rest upon. Prece-
dents in law are good pleas, and strong cncouragements to the client
to expect success in his suit. “Our fathers trusted in thee, and thou
didst deliver them," saith David (Ps. xxii. 4). And Jehoshaphat,
in a case of distress (2 Chron. xx. 7), “ Art not thou our God, that
didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel Y"
When we have not an statute law and promise to plead, we may
pllead his power, together with the former precedents and act of it.
e centurion had nothing else to act his faith upon but the ower
of Christ, and some evidences of it in the miracles reported ofp him;
but he is silent in the latter, and casts himself only upon the former,
acknowledging that Christ had the same comman over diseases, as
himself had over his soldiers (Matt. viii. 10). And our Saviour,
when he receives the petition of the blind men, requires no more of
them in order to a cure, but a belief of his ability to erform it
(Matt. ix. 28); “ Believe ou that I am able to do this ?’ ¥[is will is
not known ut by revelation, but his wer is apprehended b
reason, as essentially and eternally linkedplwith the notion of a Got;
God also is jealous of the honor of this attribute; and since it is so
much virtually discredited, he is pleased when any do cordially own
it, and entirely resign themselves to the assistance of it. Well, then,
in all duties where faith is particularly to be acted, forget not this as
the main rop of it: do you pray for a flourishing and triumphing
grace? (lbnsider him “as able to make all grace to abound in
you" (2 Cor. ix. 8). Do you want comfort and reviving under your
munitions and godly sorrow ‘P Consider him, as he declares himself,

