\
s
~.
 
\\ 
_ _.\¥\
 
106 CHARNOCK ON CHE ATTRIBUTES.
“the high and lofty One’ (Isa. lvii. 15). Are you under pn
distresses? take Eliphaz’s advice to Job, when he tells him wk
himself would do if he were in his case (Job v. 8), “I would
unto God, and unto God would I commit m causez” but ob
under what consideration (ver. 9) as to one “ that doth great tl
and unsearchable; marvellous thin without number.” Whei
beg of him the melting your rocky ilearts, the dashing in pieces
strong coljruptions, the drawing is beautiful image in your
the quickening your dead hearts, and reviving our drooping s}
and supplying your spiritual wants, consider   as one “ah
do abundantly,” not onl “above what you can ask,” but “a
what youcan think”     20). Faith will be spiritless,
prayer will be liveless, if power be not eyed by us in those tl
which cannot be done without an arm of Omni tence.
3. This doctrine teacheth us humility and submimion. The
disproportion between the mightiness of God, and the meanne
a creature, inculeates the lesson of humility in his presence.
becoming is humility under a mighty hand (1 Pet. v. 6)l W]
an infant in a giant’s hand, or a. lamb in a lion’s paw? bubmi
to irresistible power is the best policy, and the best security;
gratifies and draws out goodness, whereas murmuring and resisi
exasperates and sharpens power. We sanctify his name, and gl
his strength, by falling down before it; it is an acknowled mei
nis invisible strength, and our inability to match it. How
should we therefore lie before him, against whose ower our ]
and murmuring can do no good, who can out-wrestie us in our
tests, and alway overcome when he judges (Rom. iii. 4) !
` 4. This doctrine teaeheth us not to fear the pride and fon
man. How unreasonable is it to fear a limited, above an unbou
power! How unbecoming is the fear of man in him, who hat
interest in a strength able to curb the strongest devilsl Who w
tremble at the threats of a dwarf, that hath a mighty and watt
'ant for_his guard? If God_doth but arise, his enemies are scatl
Ps. lxviu. 1): the least motlon makes them fly before hun: it
iliicult thing for Him, that made them b a word, to unmake
designs, and shiver them in ieces by the breath of his mouth:
brings princes to nothing, ans makes the jud es of the earth vai
they wither when he blows upon them, and their stock shall
take root in the earth. He can command a. whirlwind to take 1
away as stubble” (Isa. xl. 23, 24), yea., with the “shaking o
hand he makes servants to become rulers of those that were
masters (Zech. ii. 9). Whole nations are no more in his hands
a “morning cloud,’ or the “ dew upon the ground,” or “ the
before the wind,” or the smoke against the motion of the air, w
though it appear out of a chimney like a black invincible clor
quickly dispersed, and becomes invisible (Hos. xiii. 3). How ir
siderable are the most mighty to this strength, which can puff z
a whole world of proud grasshoppers, and a. whole sky of dz
clouds! He that by his word masters the rage of the sea, can 4
rule the pride and power of men. Where is the fury of the op
lor? It cannot overleap the bounds he hath set it, nor march an

