ON 'ms rowaa or son. 107
beyond the point he hath prescribed it. Fear not the confederacies
of man, but “sanctify the Lord of hosts; let him be your fear, and
let him be our dread” (Isa. viii. 13). To fear men is to dishonor
the name oiy God, and regard him as a feeble Lord, and not as the
Lord of hosts, who is mi ht in strength, so that they that harden
themselves against him shall’ not prosper._
5. Therefore this doctrine teacheth us the fear of God. The pro-
phet Jeremiah countsit as an impossible thing for men to be desti-
tute of the fear of God, when they seriously consider his name to be
great and mighty (Jer. x. 6, 7): “Thou art great, and thy name is
great in might: who would not fear thee, O thou King of nations ?”
hall we not tremble at his presence, who hath placed the “sand for
the bound of the sea by a perpetual decree ;” that though the waves
thereof toss themselves, yet they cannot prevail (Jer. v. 22). He
mn arm the weakest creature for our destruction, and disarm the
strongest creatures which appear for our preservation. He can corn-
mand a hair, a crumb, a kernel, to go awry, and strangle us. He
can make the heavens brass over our head, stop close the bottles
of the clouds, and make the fruit of the 'fields droop, when there is a
small distance to the harvest; he can arm men’s wit, wealth, handsi
against themselves; he can turn our sweet morsels into bitter, an
our own consciences into devouring lions; he can root up cities by
moles, and conquer the proudest by lice and worms. The omni
tence of God is not only the object of a believer’s trust, but a bg:
liever`s fear. It is trom the, consideration of this power only, that
our Saviour presses his disciples, whom he entitles his friends, to fear
God; which lesson he resses b a double repetition, and with a
kind of asseveration, without rendierin any other reason than this
of the ability of God to cast into hell (Euke   5). We are to fear
Him because he can; but bless his goodness because he will not. In
regard of his omnipotence, he is to be reverenced, not only by mor-
tal men, but by the blessed angels, who are past the fear of an
danger by his power, being confirmed in a ha py state by his until?
terable grace: when they adore him for his hdliness, they reverence
lnm for his power with covered faces: the title of the “Lord of
hosts” is joined in their reverential praise with that of his holiness
(ISL vi. 3), “ Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts.” How should
we adore that Power which can preserve us, when devils and men
conspire to destroy us! How should we stand in awe of that Power
which can destroy us, thou h angels and men should combine to
p}'€Serve.usl The arts of Lis ways which are discovered, are suii-
cient motives to anliumble and reverential adoration : but who can
fear and adore him according to the vastness of his power, and his
excelllgpt greatnesi, since “the thunder of his power who can under-
mn.

