DISCUURSE XI.
ON THE IIOLINESS OF GOD.
lxmnn xv. 11.-Who is like unto thee, 0 Lord, among the gods! Who is like thee
glorious in holinel, fearful in praises, doing wonders!
THIS verse is one of the 'loftiest descriptions of the majesty and
excellency of God in the whole Scripture. It is a. art of Moss’
'Em~Iuw»', or “ triumphant song,” after a great and real: and a tvpical
victory; in the womb of which all the deliverances of the church
were couched. It is the first song upon holy record, and it consists
of gratulatory and prophetic matter; it casts a look backward to
what God did for them in their deliverance from Egypt; and a look
forward to what God shall do for the church in future ages. That
deliverance was but a rough draught Of something more excellentto
be wrought towards the closing up of _the world ; when his plagues
shall be poured out utpon the anti-chrisiian powers, which shoul re-
vive the same song o Moses in the church, as fitted so many age#
before for such a scene of affairs (Rev. xv. 2, 3). It is observed,
therefore, that many words in this song are put in the future tense,
noting a time to come; and the very first word, ver. 1, “ Then sang
Moses and the children of Israel this song ;” n~=:'~, shall sing; imply-
ing, that it was composed and calculated for the celebrating some
greater action of God’s, which was to be wrought in the world!
Upon this account, some of the Jewish rabbins, from the considers
tion of this remark, asserted the doctrine of the resurrection to be
meant in this place ; that Moses and those Israelites should rise
again to sing the same song, for some eater miracles God should
work, and greater triumphs he should gli-ring forth, exceeding those
wonders at their deliverance from Egypt. '
It consists of, 1. A preface (ver. 1); “I will sing unto the L0rd."‘
2. An historical narration of matter of fact Sven 3, 4), “ l‘haraoh‘s
chariots and his host hath he cast into the Re Sea," which he solely
ascribes to God (ver. 6), “ Thy right hand, O Lord, is become glen-
ous in power: thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in   the
enemy ;'l which he doth propheticall , as respecting somet 'ng tobe
done in after-times; or further for tlie completing of that deliver-
ance; Or, as Others think, respecting their entering into Canaan; for
the words, in these two verses, are put in the future tense. The man-
ner of the deliverance is described (ver. 8); “ The Hoods stood up
" Trap. in loc. ° Manasa. ben Israel, de Resurr. lib. 1, cap. 1, p. 7.
* Pareus in Exod. xv.

