ON 'rns HOLINESS or son. 109
right as an heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea.”
In the 9th verse, he ma;gn` es the victor from the vain glory and se-
curit ' of the enemy; “ he enemy said, li will pursue, I will overtake,
I will divide the spoil,” &c. And ver. 16, 17, He rophetically describes
the fruit of this victory, in the influence it shall) have upon those na-
tions, by whose confines they were to travel to the promised land;
“ Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thy arm
they shall be as still as a stone, till thy people pass over which thou
hast purchased.” The phrase of this and t e 17th and 18th verses,
seems to be more magnificent than to design only the bringing the
Israelites to the earthly Canaan; but seems to respect the gathering
his redeemed ones to ether, to place them in the spiritual sanctuary
which he had established, wherein the Lord should reign forever
and ever, without any enemies to disturb his roialty; “The Lord
shall reign forever and ever” (ver. 18). The prop et, in the midst of
his historical narrative, seelms tc; be in an ecstasy, and breaks out in
a statel ' exaltation of Go in t e text.
Whoyzls like unto thee, 0 Lord, among the gods? &c. Interrogations
are, in Sc ` ture, the strongest aiiirmations or nevations; it is here
astrong algimation of the incomparableness of Erod, and a strong
denial of the worthiness of all creatures to be partners with him in
the degrees of his excellency; it is a preference of God before all
creatures in holiness, to which the p1u'ity of creatures is but a
shadow in desert of reverence and veneration, he being “ fearful in
praises." The angels cover their faces when they adore him in his
particular erfections.
Anumgstptlze gods. Among the idols of the nations, say some;
others say,° it is not to be found that the Heathen idols are ever dig-
nified with the title of “strong or mighty,” as the word translated
gods, doth import; and therefore understand it of the angels, or
other potentates of the world; or rather inclusively, of all that are
noted for, or can lay claim to, the title of strength and might upon
the earth or in heaven. Gcild is so great and majestic, that no crea-
ture can share with him in is praise.
Fearful in praises. Various are the interpretations of this passage:
tobe “reverenced in raises ;” his praise on fht to be celebrated
with at religious fear. liear is the roduct of his mercy as well as
his justice ; “He hath forgiveness ihat he may be feared” (Ps. cxxx.
4). Or, “fearful in praises;” whom none can praise without amaze-
ment at the considerations of his works. None can truly praise him
without being aifected with astonishment at his greatness!" Or,
“ fearful in praises ;” whom no mortal can sutiiciently praise,
since he is above all praises VVhatsoever a human tongue can
speak, or an angelical understanding think of the excellency of
his nature and the greatness of his works, fallsshort of the vast,
ness of the Divine perfection. A creaturdséiraises of God are as
much below the transcendent eminency of od, as the meanness
of a crea.ture’s being is below the eternal fulness of the Creator.
Or, rather, “ fearful,” or terrible, “in praises ;” that is, in the
matter of thy praise: and the learned Rivet concurs with me in
U Rivet. f Calvin. I Munster.

