<3 _
,__
`_.
r-i
~:
\ E~
\‘.
\ E:
\‘.
s
\
s\\
\\§
\ \\\
\
S\ \
)&
110 CHABNOCK ON 'rim xrrnrsvrss.
this sense. The works of God, celebrated in this song, w
rible; it was the miraculous overthrow of the strength an(
of a mighty nation ; his judgments were severe, as well
mercy was seasonable. The word ze-11: signies glorious an
trious, as well as terrible and fearful. No man can hear th
of thy name, for those great judicial acts, without some a
ment at thy justice, the stream, and thy holiness, the spring 1
mighty works. This seems to be the sense of the following
“doing wonders 1” fearful in the matter of thy praise; the
wonders which thou hast done among us and for us.
Doing wonders. Congealing the waters by a wind, to mal
stand like walls for the rescue of the Israelites; and melting t
a. wind, for the overthrow of the Egyptians, are rodigies th
lenffe the greatest adorations of that mercy whicli) delivered t
and, that justice which punished the other; and of the arm
power whereby he eEected both his gracious and righteous pi
Whence observe, that the judgments of God upon his enei
Well as his mercies to his people, are matters of praise. The
tions of God appear in both. Justice and mercy are so lini
gether in his acts of providence, that the one cannot be fo
whilst the other is acknowled ed. He is never so terrible as
assemblies of his saints, and the deliverance of them (Ps. lxx
As the creation was erected b him for his glogy; so all the
his government are designed? for the same en : and his cr
deny him his due, if they acknowledge not his excellency ir
soever dreadful, as well as pleasing garbs, it ap ears in the
His terror as well as his righteousness appears, when he is a
salvation (Ps. lxv. 5). “By terrible things in righteousness ww
answer us, O God of our salvation.” But the ex ression f
upon in the text to handle, is glorious, in holiness. He is ma
or honorable in holiness; so the word -mr: is translated (If
21). “He will magnify the law, and make it honorable.” Tl
ness hath shone forth admirably in this last exploit, against tl
mies and oppressors of thy people. The holiness of God is his
as his grace IS his riches: holiness is his crown, and his mere;
treasure. This is the blessedness and nobleness of his nat
renders him glorious in himself, and glorious to his creatun
understand an thing of this lovely perfection. Holiness is z
ous perfection belonging to the nature of God. Hence he is in
ture st led often the Holy One, the Holy One of Jacob, the
One ot? Israel; and oftener entitled Holy, than Almight , a
forth by this part of his dignity more than by any other. Tliis i
affixed as an epithet to his name than any other: you never
expressed, His mighty name, or his His wise name; but Hi;
name, and most o al, His holy name. This is his greatest
honor; in this doth the majesty and venerableness of his nal
gear. When the sinfulness of Sennacherib is aggravated, th<
host takes the rise from this attribute (2 Kings xix. 22). ‘
hast lift up 'thine eyes on h' h, even against the Hol One of I1
not against the wise, mighty, Arc., but against tile Holy 1
Israel, as that wherein the majesty of God was most illustriom

