_ ON Tim Honnvnss or con. 111
this account he is called light, as impurity is called dark-
oth in this sense are o posed to one another: he is a pure
uixed light, free from all blemish in his essence, nat1u~e, and
>11S, -
mthens have owned it. Proclus calls him, the undefiled Go-
of the world.” The poetical transformations of their false
id the extravagancies committed by them, was-in the ac-
fthe wisestvof them-an unholy thing to report and heani
me vindicate Epicurus from the atheism wherewith he was
il charged; that he did not deny the being of God, but
lulterous and contentious deities the people worshipped, which
ractices unworthy and unbecoming the nature of God!
they aswrted, that virtue was an imitation of God, and a.
s man bore a resemblance to God: if virtue were a copy from
greater holiness must be owned in the original And when
` them were at a loss how to free God from being the author
1 the world, they ascribe the birth of sin to matter, and run
abs\u~d opinion, fanépiying it to be uncreated, that thereby they
exempt God from mixture of evil; so sacred with them
i conception of God, as a Holy God. -
ie absurdest heretics have owned it. The Maniciies and
mites, thatthought evil came by necessity, yet would salvc
eing the author of it, by asserting two distinct eternal rin-
Jne the original of evil, as God was the fountain of goodll so
was the notion of this Divine purity, that none would ever
goodness itself with that which was so disparaging to it.l
he nature of God cannot rationally be conceived without it.
i the power of God be the first rational conclusion, drawn
ie sight of his works, wisdom the next, from the order and
ion of his works, urity must rwult from the beaut of his
that God cannot be deformed by evil, who hath mafia every
J beautiful in its time. The notion of a God cannot be en-
ad without separating from him whatsoever is impure and be-
; both in his essence and actions. Though we conceive him
in Majesty, ,iniinite in essence, eternal in duration, mighty in
and wise and immutable in his counsels; merciful in his
[ings with men, and whatsoever other rfections may dig-
sovereign a Being, yet if we conceive lhlim destitute of this
ut perfection, and imagine him possessed with the least con-
of evil, we make him but an infinite monster, and sully all
erfections we ascribed to him before; we rather own him a
ian a God. It is a contradiction to be God and to be dark-
rto have one mote of darkness mixed with his light. It is a
|1ry to him to deny his being, than to den the purity of it;
:makes him no od, the other a deformed: unlovely, and a
ble gud. s Plutarch said not amiss, That he should count him-
i injured by that man, that should deny that there was sich a
Plutarch, than by him that should aiiirm that there was such
xv-ro; iyyquév. * owl’ dxouiew éamv. Ammon. in Plut. de ‘EL spud Delphog
* Gusend. Tom. l. Phys. § l,1ib. 4, cap. 2, p. 289.
r.'1‘heol. Dogmat. Tom. I. lib. 6, cap. 5, p._415.
          ss
 
`\
  \\\
  gs. “
\
~:
~.
~.
1
§-\
i:\

