112 cnsnuocx ON 'mn A'l'l‘RIBU'l‘EB._
a one indeed, but he was a. debauched fellow, a loose and vicious
person. It is a less wrong to God to discard any acknowledgments
of his being, and to count him nothing, than to believe him to exist,
but imagine a base and unhol Deity : he that saith, God is not holy,
speaks much worse than he diat saith, There is no God at all. Let
ese two things be considered.
I. If any, this attribute hath an excellency above his other perfec-
tions. There are some attributes of God we prefer, because of our
interest in them, and the relation they bear to us: as we esteem his
goodness before his power, and his mercy whereby he relieves us,
before his justice whereby he punisheth us; as there are some we
more delight- in, because of the goodness we receive by them; so there
are some that God delights to honor, because of their excellency.
1. None is sounded out so lottil , with such solemnity, and so
frequently by angels that stand befhrre his throne, as this. Where
do you ‘rind an other attribute trebled in the praises of it, as this
(Isa. vi. 3)? “ Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth
is full of _ tis glory ;” and (Rev. iv. 8), “The four beasts rest not day
and night, saying, Holy, holy, hol , Lord God Almighty,” &.c. His
power or sovreignty, as Lord of hosts, is but once mentioned, but
with a. ternal repetition of his holiness. Do ou hear, in any angeli-
cal song, any other erfection of the Divine lglature thrice repcmted?
Where do we readpof the crying out Eternal, eternal, eternal; or,
Faithful, faithful, faithful, Lord God of Hosts? Vifhatsoever other
attribute is left out, this God would have to ill the mouths of angels
and blessed s irits for ever in heaven. _
2. He singles it out to swear by (Ps. lxxxix. 35): “Once have I
sworn by my holiness, that I will not lie unto David:” and (Amos
iv. 2), “The Lord will swear by his holiness :” he twice swears by
his holiness; once by his power (Isa. lxii. 8); once by all, when he
swears by his name (Jer. xliv. 26). He lays here his holiness to
pledge for the assurance of his promise, as the attribute most dear to
im, most valued by him, as t ough no other could give an assur-
ance parallel to it in this concern of an everlasting redemption which
is there spoken of: he that swears, swears by a greater than himself;
God having no greater than himself, swears by himself: and swear-
ing h-are b his holiness, seems to equal that single one to all 1115
other attributes, as if he were more concerned in the honor of it,
than of all the rest. It is as if he should have said, Since I have not
a more excellent erfection to swear hiv, than that of my holiness, I
lay this to pawn tlir your security, an bind myself by that whichl
will never part with, were it possible for meto be stripped of all the
rest. It is a. tacit imprecation of himself, If I lie unto avid, let me
never be counted holy, or thought righteous enough to be trusted by
angels or men. This attribute he makes most of
3. It is his glory and beauty. Holiness is the honor of the crea-
turefsanctification and honor are linked together (1 Thess. iv. 4);
much more is it the honor of God; it is the image of God in tht!
creature (Eph. _iv. 24). When we take the picture of a man, W0
draw the most beautiful part, the face, which is a member of the
greatest excellency. When God would be drawn to the life, as much

