ON ms HOLINESS or som 113
be, in the spirit of his creatures, he is drawn in this attribute,
ng the most beautifull perfection of God, and most valuable
Lim. Power is his hand and arm; omniscience, his eye; mercy,
wels; eternigy, his duration; his holiness is his beauty (2 Chron.
L);-“ shoul praise the beauty of holiness.” In Ps. xxvii. 4,
desires “to behold the beauty of the Lord, and inquire in his
emple ;” that is, the holiness of God manifested in his hatred
` th dail rifi _ Hli th beaut ofthetem le
in e y sac ces o ness was e y p
Llvi. 11); holy and beautiful house are joined together; much
ahe beauty of God that dwelt in the sanctuary. This renders him
1 to all his innocent creatures, though formidable to the guilty
A heathen philosgpher could call it the beauty of the Divine
e, and say, t at G was not so happy by an eternity of life,
an exeellency of virtue."\ And the angels’ song intimate it to
glory (Isa. vi. 3); “The whole earth is full of t y glory _;” that
his holiness in his laws, and in his judgments against sin, that
the attribute a lauded by them before.
It is his very liiia. So-it is called (Eph. iv. 18), “Alienated
;he life of God," that is, from the holiness of God: speaking of
»posite to it, the uncleanness and profaneness of the Gentiles.
re only alienated from that which we are bound to imitate; but
s the perfection alway set out as the pattern of our actions,
'e holy, as I am holy;’ no other is proposed as our copy; alien-
rom t at purity of God, which is as much as his life, without
he could not 've. If he were stripped of this, he would be a
God, more than by the want of any other rfection. His
ing by it intimates as much; he swears often by his own life;
I live, saith the Lord:" so he swears by his holiness, as if it
1is life, and more his life than any other. Let me not live, or
snot bl; holy, are all one in his oath. His Deity could not
h ` f ` 't .
e t e e o is £1111 y
As it seems to c allenge an excellency above all his other er-
as, so it'is the glory ci' all the rest. As it is the glory of the (fod-
so it is the glory of every perfection in the Godhead. As his
' is the strength of them, so his holiness is the beauty of them.
l would be weak, without alrnightiness to back them, so all
_ be uncomely without holiness to adorn them. Should this be
l, all the rest would lose their honor and their comfortable
ly: as, at the same instant that the sun should lose its light, it
L lose its heat, its strength, its generative and quickening virtue.
icerity is the lustre of every grace in a Christian, so is purity
>lendor of ever attribute in the Godhead. His justice is a
ustice; his w'is<ibm a holy wisdom; his arm of power a hol
Ps. xcviii. 1); his truth or promise a holy promise (Ps. cv. 42 _
and true go hand in hand (Rev. vi. 10). His name, whic
ies all his attributes in conjunction, is holy (Ps. ciii. 1); yea,
“righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works” (Ps. cxlv.
it is the rule of all his acts, the source of all his punishments.
ry attribute of the Deity were a distinct membe%,purity would
zform, the soul, the spirit to animate them. ithout it, his
' Plutarch Eugubin. de Perenni Phil. lib. 6, cap. 6.
. u.-8
 \ \
-\s\ \\
\\\
ss

