114 CHARNOCK ON 'ms Arrnrsurss.
patience would be an indulgence to sin, his mercy a fondness, his
wrath a madness, his power a tyranny, his wisdom an unworthy
subtiltiy. It is this gives a decorum to all. ,His mercy is not ex-
ercise without it, since he pardons none but those that have an
interest, by union, in the obedience of a Mediator, which was.so
delightful to his infinite urit . His justice, which guilty man is
apt to tax with cruelty and) violyence in the exercise of it, is not acted
out of the compass of this rule. In acts of man’s vzindictive justice
there is something of impurity, erturbation, passion, some mixture
of cruelt ; but none of these fall u n God in the severest acts of
Wrath. %Vhen God appears to Ezegiel, in the resemblance of fire,
to signify his an r against the house of Judah for their idolatry,
“ from his loins ddwnwacrd” there was “the appearance of fire ;” but,
from the loins upward, “ the.appea.rance of brightness, as the color of
amberf’ (Ezek. viii. 2). His heart is clear in his most tenible acts
of vengeance; it is a pure flame, wherewith he scorcheth and burns
his enemies: he is holy in the most Hery appea.rance. This attribute,
therefore, is never so much a plauded,-as when his sword hath been
drawn, and he hath manifested the greatest fierceness against his enev
mies. The magnificent and triumphant expression of it in the text,
follows just upon God’s miraculous defeat and ruin of the Egyptian
army: “The sea cover_l them; they sank as lead in the mighty
watersz” then it follows, “Who is like unto thee, O Lord, glorious
in holiness?" And when it was so celebrated by the seraphims (Isa.
vi. 3), it was when the “posts moved, and the house was Hlled with
smoke" (ver. 4), which are signs of anger (Ps. xviii. 7, 8). And.
when he was a out to send Isaiah upon a message of spiritual and
temporal judgments, that he' would make the “ heart o that people
fat, and their ears heavy, and their eyes shut; waste their cities with-
out inhabitant, and their houses without man, and make the land
desolate” (ver. 9-12): and the angels which here applaud him for
his holiness, are the executioners of his justice, and here called ,sera~
phims, from burning or tier? spirits, as being the ministers of his
wrath. His justice is part o his holinex, whereby he doth reduce
into order those things that are out of order. When he isconsuming
men by his fury, he doth not diminish, but manifest purity (Zeph.
iii. 5); “ The just Lord is in the midst of her; he will do no iniquity.”
Every action of his is free from all tincture of evil. It is also cele-
brated with praise, by the four beasts about his throne, when he a -
pears in a covenant garb with a rainbow about his throne, and yet Wig).
thunderings and lightnings shot against his enemies (Rev. iv. 8,
compared with ver. 3, 5), to show that all his acts of mercy, as well
as justice, are clear from an stain. This is the »crown of all his
attributes, the life of all his decrees, the brightness of all his actions:
nothing is decreed by him, nothing is acted by him, but what is
worthy ofthe dignity, and becoming the honor, of this attribute.
For the better understanding this attribute, observe, I. The nature
of this holiness. II. The demonstration of it. III. The purity of
his nature in all his acts about sin. IV. The use of all to ourselves.
I. The nature of Divine holiness in germal. The holiness of God
negatively, is a perfect and unpolluted freedom from all evil. As we

