ON 'mn nonmnss or con. 115
call gold pure that is not embased by any dross, and that garment
clean that is free from any spot, so the nature of God is estranged
from all shadow of evil, all imaginable contagion. Positzbely, It is
the rectitude or integrity of the Divine nature, or that conformit of
it, in affection and action, to the Divine will, as to his eternal 'law
whereby he works with a becomingness to his own excellency, and
whereby he hath a delight and comiplacency in everything agreeable
to his will, and an abhorrency o 6V6lgihl.I1g contrary thereunto.
As there is no darkness in hismnderstan ing, so there is no ot in
his will: as his mind is possessed with all truth, so there is nosgevia-
tion in his will from it. He loves all truth and goodness; he hates
all falsity and evil. In regard of his righteousness, he loves right-
eousness (Ps. xi. 7); “The righteous Lord loveth righteousness,” and
“hath no pleasure in wicke ness” (Ps. v. 4). He values purity in
his creatures, and detests all impurity, whether inward or outward.
We may, indeed, distinguish the holiness of God from his righteous-
ness in our conce tions: holiness is a perfection absolutely considered
in the nature oi? God; righteousness, a perfection, as referred to
others, in his actions towards them and upon them."
In particular, this property of the Divine nature is, 1. An essential
and necessary perfection: he is essentially and necessarily holy. It
is the essential glory of his nature: his holiness is as necessary as his
being; as necessary as his omniscience: as he cannot but know what
is right, so he cannot but do what is just. His understanding is not
as created understanding, capable of ignorance as well as knowledge;
so his will is not as created wills, capable of unrighteousness, as well
asrighteousness. 'I‘here can be no contradiction or contrariety in
the Divine nature, tc know what is right, and to do what is wrong;
if so, there would be a diminution of his blessedness, he would not
be a God alway blessed, “blessed forever,” as he is (Rom. ix. 5).
He is as necessarily hol , as he is necessarily God; as necessarily
without sin, as without change. As he was God from eternit , so he
was holy from eternity. He was gracious, merciful, just in his own
nature, and also holy; though no creature had been framed by him
to exercise his grace, merc , 'ustice, or holiness upon.° If God
had not created a world, he liadl in his own nature, been Almighty,
and able to create a world. If there never had been anything but
himself, yet he had been omniscient, knowing everything that was
within the verge and compass of his infinite power; so he was pure
in his own nature, though he never had brought forth any rational
creature whereby to manifest this purity. These perfections are so
necessary, that the nature of God could not subslst without them.
And the acts of those, ad intra, or within himself, are necessar ; for
being omniscient in nature, there must be an act of knowledlge of
himself and his own nature. Being infinitely holy, an act of holiness
in infinitely loving himself, must necessarily flow from this perfec-
t1on.P As the Divine will cannot but be perfect, so it cannot be
wanting to render the highest love to itself; to its goodness, to the
Divine nature, which is dine to him. Indeed, the acts of ithose, ad
' Martin. de Deo, . 86. ° Turretin. de Satisfact. p. 28,
F Oehino, l'| edic. gan. III. Bodic. 51, pp. 347, 348.

