116 cmrmocx ON 'ms Jrrfmmmns.
aura are not -necessary, but u n a condition. To love ri hteoush
ness,'without himself, or to deptgct sin, or inflict punishrneng for the
committing of it, could not have been, had there been no riglhteous
creature for him to love, no sinning creature for him to loat e, and
to exercise l his justice upon, as the object of punishment. Some
attributes regiuire a condition to make the acts of them necessary;
as it is at Go ’s liberty, whether he will create a rational creature,
or no; but when he decrees to make either angel or man, it is neces-
sary, from the perfection of his nature, to make them righteous. It
is at God’s liberty whether-he will speak to man, or no; but if he
doth, it is impossible for him to speak that which is false, because
of his infinite pertbction of veracity. It is at his liberty whether he
will ermit a creature to sin; but if he sees good to suffer it, it is im-
poss£>le but that he should detest that creature that goes cross to his
righteous nature. His holiness is not solel an act of his will, for
then he might be unholy as well as holy; llre might love iniqui
and hate righteousnem; he might then command that which is goo?
and afterwards command that which is bad and unworthy; for what
is only an act of his will, and not belonging to his nature, is indi&'er-
ent to him. As the positive law he gave to Adam, of not eating the
forbidden fruit, was a pure act of his will, he might have given him
liberty to eat of it, if he had pleased, as well as prohibited him. But
what is moral and good in its own nature, is necessarily willed by God,
and cannot be changed by him, because of the transcendent eminency
of his nature, and righteousness of his will. As it is impossible for
God to command his creature to hate him, or to dispense with a
creature for not loving¢him,-for this would be to command a thing
intrinsically evil, the highest ingratitude, the ve spirit of all wick-
edness, which consists in the hatin God,-yet, gough God be thus
necessarily holy, he is not so by aaare and simple necessity, as the
sun shines, or the fire burns; but by a free necessity, not compelled
thereunto, but inclined from the fulness of the perfection of his own
nature and will; so as by no means he can beunholy, because he
will not be unholy; it is against his nature to be so.
2. God is only absolutely holy; “There is none holy as the
Lord” (1 Sam. ii. 2); it is the peculiar glor of his nature; as
there is none good but God, so none holy glut God. No crea-
ture can be essentially holy, because mutable; holiness is the sub-
stance of God, but a quality and accident in a creature. God is in-
finitely holy, creatures finitely holy. He is holy from himself, crea-
tures are holy by derivation from him. He is not only holy, but
holiness; holiness in the highest degree, is his sole prerogative. As
the hi hest heaven is called the heaven of heavens, because it em-
braceti in its circle all 'the heavens, and contains the magnitude of
them, and hath a greater vastness above all that it encloseth, so is
God the Hol of holies; he contains the holiness of all creatures put
together, aud1 infinitely more. As all the wisdom, excellency, and
power of the creatures if compared with the wisdom, excellency, and
power of God, is but folly, vileness, and weakness; so the highest
created purity, if set in parallel with God, is but impurity and un-
cleanness (Rev. xv.   “Thou only art holy.” It is like the light

