ON 'ran nonnmss or con. 117
ofa glow-worm to that of the sun (Job   15); “ The heavens are
not pure in his si ht, and his angels he charged with folly" (Job
iv. 18). Though god hath crowned the angels with an unspotted
sanctity, and p aced them in a habitation of lory, yet, as illustrious
as they are, they have an unworthiness in their own nature to ap-
pear before the throne of so hol a God; their holiness grows dim
and pale in his presence. It ishut a weak shadow of that Divine
purity, whose light is so glorious, that it makes them cover their
faces out of weakness to behold it, and cover their feet out of shame
in themselves. 'l‘hey are not pure in his sight, because, though they
love God (which is a principle of holiness) as much as they can,
yet, not so much as he deserves; they love him with the intensest
degree, according to their power; but not with the intensest degree,
according to his own amiableness; for the cannot infinitely ove
God, lmless they were as infinite as God, and' had an understanding
of his perfections equal with himself, and as immense as his own
knowledge. God, havin an infinite knowledge of himself, can only
have an infinite love to himself; and, consequentl , an infinite holi-
ness without any defect; because he loves himself? according to the
vastness of his own amiableness, which no finite being can. There-
fore, though the angels be exempt from corruption and soil, they
cannot enter into comparison with the urity of God, without nc-
lmowled ent of a dimness in themselves. Besides, he charges
them wign folly, and puts no trust in them; because they have the
power of sinning, though not the act of sinning; they have a pos-
sible folly in their own nature to be charged with. Holiness is a
axuality separable from them, but it is inseparable from God. Had
ey not at first a mutability in their nature, none of them could
have sinned, there had been no devils; but because some of them
sinned, the rest might have sinned. And though the standing
angels shall never be changled, yet they are still changeable in their
own nature, and their stan `ng is due to grace, not to nature; and
though they shall be for ever preserved, yet they are not, nor ever
can be, immutable by nature, or then they should stand upon the
same bottom with God himself; but they are supported by grace
against that changeableness of nature which is essential to a crea~
ture; the Creator only hath immortality, _that is, immutability
(1 Tim.   16). It is as certain a truth, t at no creature can be
naturally immutable and impeccable, as that God cannot create any
anything actually polluted and imperfect. It is as possible that
the hfrhest creature may sin, as it is possible that it may be anni-
 ; it ma become not holy, as it may become not a crea-
ture, but notliing. The holiness of a creature may be reduced
into nothing, as well as his substance; but the holiness of the
Creator cannot be diminished, dimmed, or overshadowed (James i.
17): “He is the Father qf lights, with whom is no variab eness or
shadow of turning." It is as impossible his holiness should be
blotted, as that his Deity should be extinguished: for whatsoever
creature hath essentially such or such qualities, cannot be stripped
of them, without bein turned out of its essence. As a man is es-
sentially rational; and if he ceaseth to be rational, he ceaseth to be

