118 cnarmocx ON THE ATPRIBUTES.
man. The sun is essentially luminous; if it should become dark in
its own body, it would cease to be the sun. In regard to this abso-
lute and only holiness of God, it is thrice repeated y the seraphims
(Isa. vi. 3). The three-fold repetition of a word notes the certainty
or absoluteness of the thing, or the irreversiblencss of the resolve;
as (Ezek. xxi. 27), “I will overturn, overturn, overturn," notes the
certainty of the judgment; also, (Rev. viii. 8), “ Woe, woe, woe,”
three times repeated, signifies the same. The holiness of God isso
absolutely peculiar to him, that it can no more be expressed in
creatures, than his omnipotence, whereby they may be able to create
a world; or his omniscience, whereby they ma be capable of know-
ing all things, and knowing God as he knows himseltl
3. God is so holy, that he cannot possibly approve of any evil done
b another, but doth perfectly abhor it; it would not else be 5
gibrious holiness (Ps. v. 3). “ He hath no pleasure in wickedness."
He doth not only love that which is just, but abhor, with a perfect
hatred, all things contrary to the rule of righteousness. Holiness
can no more approve of sin than it can commit it: to be delighted
with the evil in another’s act, contracts a guilt, as well as the com-
mission of it; for approbation of a thing is a consent to it. Some-
times the approbation of an evil in another is a more grievous
crime than the act itself, as appears in Rom. i. 32, who knowing
the judgment of God, “not only" do the same, but have pleasurein
them that do it ;” where the “ not only” manifests it tobe a (greater guilt
to take pleasure in them. Every sin is aggravated by the elight in it;
to take pleasure in the evil of another’s action, shows a more ardent
affection and love to sin, than the committer himself may have. This
therefore, can as little fall upon God, as to do an evil act himself; yet,
as a man may be delighted with the consequences of another’s sin,
as it may occasion some public good, or private good to the guilty
person, as sometimes it may be an occasion of his repentance, when
the horridness of a fact stares him in the face, and occasions a self-
reilection for that, and other crimes, which is att/ended with an in-
dignation against thorn, and sincere remorse for them; so God is
pleased with those good things his goodness and wisdom bring forth
upon the occasion of sin. But in regard of his holiness, he cannot
approve of the evil, whence his infinite wisdom drew forth his own
g ory, and his creature’s good. His pleasure is not in the sinful act
ofthe creature, but in the act of his own goodness and skill, turn-
in it to another end than what the creatine aimed at.
?1.) He abhors it necessarily. Holiness is the glory of the Deity,
therefore necessary. The nature of God is so holy, that he cannot
but hate it (Hab. 1. 13): “Thou art of purer eyes than to behold
evil, and canst not look on iniquity :" he is more opposite to it than
light to darkness, and, therefore, it can expect no countenance from
him. A love of holiness cannot be without a hatred of everything
that is contrary to it. As God necessarily loves himself, so he must
necessarily hate everything that is against himself: and as he lovin
himself for his own excellency and holiness, he must necessarily der
test whatsoever is repugnant to his holiness, because of the evil  
it. Since he is infinitely good, he cannot but love goodness, as it I

