ON 'rr-is nonnvws or son. 119
a rwemblance to himself; and cannot but abhor unrighteousness, as be-
ing most distant from him, and contrary to him. If he have any
esteem for his own perfections, he must needs have an implacable
aversion to all that is so repugnant to him, that would, if it were
possible, destroy him, and is a pxoint directed, not only against his
glory, but against his life. If e did not hate it, he would hate
`mself: for since righteousness is his image, and sin would deface
his image; if he did not love his image, and loathe what is against
his image, he would loathe himself, he would be an enemy to his
own nature. Nay, if it were possible for him to love it, it were
possible for him not to be holy, it were possible then for him to deny
imseli, and will that he were no God, which is a palpable contra-
dictions Yet this necessity in God of hating sin, is not a brutish
necessity, such as is in mere animals, that avoid, by a natural in-
stinct, not of choice, what is prejudicial to them; but most free, as
well as necessary, arising from an infinite knowledge of his own na-
ture, and of the evil nature of sin, and the contrariety of it to his
own excellency, and the order of his works. i
(2.) Therefore intensely. Nothing do men act for more than their
glory. As he doth iniinitely, and therefore perfectly know himself,
so he inlinitely, and therefore perfectly knows what is contrary to
himself, and, as according to the manner and measure of his knowl-
edge of himself, is his love to himself, as infinite as his knowled e,
and therefore inexpressible and unconceivable by us: so, from 540
perfection of his knowledge of the evil of sin, which is infinitely
above what any creature can have, doth arise a displeasure against
it suitable to that knowledge. In creatures the degrees of affection
to, or aversion from a thing, are suited to the strength of their a
prehensions of the good or evil in them. God knows not only `tli)e
workers of wickedness, but the wickedness of their works &J ob xi.
11), for “he knows vain men, he sees wickedness also.” "he ve-
hemency of this hatred is expressed variously in Scripture; he
loathes it so, that he is impatient of beholding it; the very sight of it
affects him with detestation (Hab. i. 13); he hates the Brat spark of
itin the imagination (Zech. viii. 17); with what variety of expres-
sions doth he repeat his indignation at their polluted services (Amos
v. 21, 22); “I hate, I detest, I despise, I wi 1 not smell, I will not
regard; take away from me the noise of thy songs, Iwill not hear l”
So, (Isa. i. 14), “My soul hates, they are a. trouble to me, I am
weary to bear them.” It is the abominable thing that he hates (Jer.
xliv. 4); he is vexed and fretted at it (Isa. lxiii. 10; Ezek. xvi. 33).
He abhors it so, that his hatred redounds upon the person that com-
mits it. (Ps. v. 5), “ He hates all workers of inuéuity." Sin is the
only primary object of his displeas\1re: he is not 'spleased with the
nature of man as man, for that was derived from him; but with the
nature of man as sinful, which is from the sinner himself When a
man hath but one object for the exercise of all his anger, it is
Rtronger than when diverted to many objects: a mighty torrent,
when diverted into many streams, is weaker than when it comes in
I full body upon one place only. The infinite anger and hatred of
'\ Turretin. de Satisfact.. pp. 85, 36.

