120 CHARNOCK ON THE Arrnrnurrzs.
God, which is as infinite as his love ‘and mercy, has no other object,
against which he directs the mighty force of it, but only unright-
eousness. He hates no person for all the penal evils upon him, though
they were more by ten thousand times than Job was struck with,
but only for his sin. Again, sin being only evil, and an unmixed
evil, there is nothing in it that can abate the detestation of God, or
balance his hatred of it; there is not the least grain of goodness in
it, to incline him to the least affection to any part of it. This ha-
tred cannot but be intense; for as the more any creature is sancti-
fied, the more is he advanced in the abhorrence of that which is
contrar to holiness; therefore, God bein the highest, most absolute
and infinite holiness, doth infinitely, and therefore intensely, hate
unholiness; being infinitely righteous, doth infinitely abhor un-
righteousness; being infinitely true, doth infinitely ab or falsity, as
it is the greatest and most deformed evill As it is from the right-
eousness of his nature that he hath a content and satisfaction in
righteousness (Ps. xi. 7), “The righteous Lord loveth righteous
ness ;” so it is from the same righteousness of his nature, that he de
tests whatsoever is morally evil: as his nature therefore is infinite
so must his abhorrence be.
(3.) Therefore universally, because necessarily and intensely. He
doth not hate it in one, and indulge it in another, but loathes it
wherever he Ends it; not one worker of iniquity is exempt from it
(Ps. v. 5): “Thou hatest all workers of iniquity.” For it is not
sin, as in this or that person, or as great or little; but sin, as sin is
the object of his hatred; and, therefore, let the person be never so
great, and have particular characters of his image upon him, it se-
cures him not from God’s hatred of any evil action he shall commit.
He is a jealous God, jealous of his glory (Exod. xx. 5); a metaphor,
taken from jealous husbands, who will not end1u~e the least adultery
in their wives, nor God the least defection of man from his law.
Every act of sin is a spiritual adultery, denying God to be the chief
god, and giving that prerogative by that act to some vile thing.
e loves it_no more in his own people than he doth in his enemies;
he frees them not from his rod, the testimony of his loathing their
crimes: whosoever sows iniquity, shall rea affliction. It might be
thou ht that he affected their dross, if he sid not refine them, and
loved their filth, if he did not cleanse them; because of his detesta-
tion 'of their sin, he will not spare them from the furnace, though
because of love to their persons in Christ, he will exempt them from
Tophet. How did the sword ever and anon drop down upon David’s
family, after his unworthy dealing in Uriah’s case, and cut off ever
and anon some of the branches o it? He doth sometimes punish
it more severel in this life in his own people, than in others. Upon
Jonah’s disoberhence a storm piusues him, and a whale devours him,
while the profane world lived in their lusts without control. Moses,
for one act of unbelief, is excluded from Canaan, when greater sin~
ners attained that happiness. It is not a light punishment, but a
vengeance he takes on their inventions (Ps. xcix, 8), to manifest that
he hates sin as sin, and not because the worst persons commit it.
Perhaps, had a profane man touched the ark, the hand of God had

