ON 'run HOLINl§S or son. _ 121
not so suddenly reached him; but when Uzzah, a man. zealous for
him, as may be suppomd by his care for the support of the tottering
ark, would step out of his place, he strikes him down for his dis-
obedient action, by the side of the ark, which he would indirectly
(as not being a Levite) sustain (2 Sam. vi. 7). Nor did our Saviour
so sharply reprove the Pharisees, and turn so short from them as he
did from Peter, when he gave a carnal advice, and contrary to that
wherein was to be the greatest manifestation of Godis holiness, mb.
the death of Christ (Matt. xvi. 23). He calls him Satan, a name
sharper than the title of the devil’s children wherewith he marked
the harisees, and given (besides him) to none but Judas, who made
a profession of v love to him, and was outwardly ranked in the num-
ber of his disciples. A gardener hates a. weed the more for being
in the bed with the most precious flowers. God’s hatred is univer-
sally fixed against sin, an he hates it as much in those whose per~
sons shall not fall under his eternal anger, as being secured in the
arms of a Redeemer, by whom the guilt is wiped oii, and the Hlth
shall be totally washed away: though he hates their sin, and cannot
but hate it, yet he loves their §ersons, as being united as members
to the Mediator and mystical ead. A man may love a gangrened
member, because it is a member of his own body, or a member of a
dear relation, but he loathes the gangrene in it more than in those
wherein he is not so much concerne _ Though God’s hatred of be-
lievers’ persons is removed by faith in the satisfactory death of Jesus
Christ, yet his antipathy against sin was not taken away by that
blood; nay, it was impossible it should. It was never designed, nor
had it any capacity to alter the unchangeable nature of God, but to
manifest the unspottedness of his will, and his eternal aversion to
anything that was contrary to the purity of his Being, and the
righteousness of his laws. '
(4.) Perpetually: this must necessarily follow upon the others.
He can no more cease to hate impurity t an he can cease to love
holiness: if he should in the least instant approve of anything that
is iilthy, in thatmoment he would disapprove of his own nature and
being; there would be an interruption in his love of himself, which
is as eternal as it is infinite. How can he love an sin which is con-
trary to his nature, but for one moment, without liyating his own na-
ture, which is essentially contrary to sin? Two contraries cannot be
loved at the same time; God must first begin to hate himself before
llecan approve of any evil which is directly opposite to himselfi
We, indeed, are changed with a temptation, sometimes bear an aifec-
tion to it, and sometimes testify an indignation against it; but God
IS always the same' without an shadow of change, and “ is angry
with the wicked every day” (ids. vii. lla, that is, uninterruptedl in
the nature of his anger, though not in t e effects of it. God indeed
may be rewnciled to the sinner, but never to the sin; for then he
fillould renounce himself, deny his own essence and his own divinity,
lfhis inclinations to the love of goodness, and his aversion from evil,
wuldbe changed, if he suifered the contempt of the one, and en-
wuragfilthe practice of the other. -
= 4. is so holy, that he cannot but love holiness in others.

