122 pnumocx on 'rim Arrnmurm.
Not that he owes anything to his creature, but from the unspeakable
holiness of his nature, whence affections to all things that bear a re-
semblance of him do flow; as light shoots out hom the sun, or any
glittering body: it is essential to the infinite righteousness of his na-
ture to love righteousness wherever he beholds it (Ps. xi. 7): “ The
righteous Lord loveth righteousness.” He cannot, lecause of his na.-
ture, but love that which bears some agreement with his nature, that
which is the curious draught of his own wisdom and purity: he can-
not but be delighted with a copy of himself : he would not have a
holy nature, if he did not love holiness in every nature: his own
nature would be denied by him, if he did not affect everything that
had a stamp of his own nature u on it. There was indeed nothing
without God, that could invite grim to manifest such goodness to
man, as he did in creation: but after he had stamped that rational
nature with a righteousness convenient for it, it was impossible but
that he should ardently love that impression of himself, because he
loves his own Deity, and consequentlli all things which are any sparks
and images of it: and were the dev' capable of an act of righteous-
ness, the holiness of his nature would inc ` e him to love it, even in
those dark and revolted s irits.
5. God is so holy, that he cannot positively will or encourage sin
in any. How can he give any encomagement to that which he can-
not in the least a prove oi; or look upon without loathing, not only
the crime, but tlie criminal? Light may sooner be the cause of
darkness than holiness itself be the cause of unholiness, absolutely
contrary to it : it is a contradiction, that he that is the Fountain of
good should be the source of evil; as if the same fountain should
ubble up both sweet and bitter streams, salt and fresh (James  
11) ; since whatsoever good is in man acknowledges God for its au-
thor, it follows that men are evil by their own fault. There is no
need for men to be incited to that to which the corru tion of their
own nature doth so powerfully bend them. Water hath a forcible
principle in its own nature to carry it downward ; it needs no force
to hasten the motion: “God tempts no man, but every man is drawn
away by his own lust” (James i. 13, 1-1). All the reparations for
glory are from God (Rom. ix. 23); but men are saidp to “be fitted to
estruction” (ver. 22) ; but God is not said to fit them; they, by
their iniqujties, Ht themselves for ruin, and he, by his long-suffering,
keeps the destruction from them for awhile.
(1.) God cannot command any unrighteousness. As all virtue is
summed up in a love to God, so all iniquity is summed up in an on-
mity to God : every wicked work declares a man an enemy to God
(Col. i. 21): “ enemies in your minds by wicked works." If he could
command his creature anything which bears an enmity in its nature
to himself; he would then implicitly command the hatred of himself;
and he would be, in some measure, a hater of himself: he that com-
mands another to deprive him of his life, cannot be said to bear any
love to his own life. God can never hate himself, and therefore can-
not command anything that is hateful to him and tends to a hating
of him, and driving the creature further from him; in that very mo-
ment that God should command such a thing, he would cease to be

