ON 'rim nonnsass or con. 123
gxod. What can be more absurd to imagine, than that Infinite
oodness _should enjoin a thing contrary to itself; and contrary to
the essential duty of a creature, and order him to do aréything that
bespeaks an enmity to the nature of the Creator, or a de ouring and
disparaging his works? God cannot but love himself; and his own
goodness; he were not otherwise good; and, therefore, cannot order
the creatine to do anything opposite to this goodness, or anything
hurtful to the creature itself; as unrighteousness is.
(2.) Nor can God secretly inspire any evil into us. It is as much
against his nature to incline the heart to sin as it is to command it:
as it is impossible but that he should love himself; and therefore im-
posible to enjoin anything that tends to a hatred of himself; by the
same reason it is as impossible that he should infuse such a principle
in the heart, that might carry a man out to any act of enmit against
him. To enjoin one thing, and incline to another, would he an ar-
gument of such insincerity, unfaithfulness, contradiction to itself;
that it cannot be conceived to fall within the compass of the Divine
nature (Deut. xxxii. 4), who is a “ God without iniquity," because
“ a God of truth" and sincerity, “just and right is lie.” To bestow
excellent faculties upon man in creation, and incline him, b a sud-
den impulsion, to things contrary to the true end of him, and induce
an inevitable ruin upon that work which he had com osed with so
much wisdom and goodness, and pronounced good witli so much de-
light and pleasure, is inconsistent with that love which God bears to
the creature of his own framin : to incline his will to that which
would render him the object of his hatred, the fuel for his justice,
and sink him into deplorable misery, it is most absurd, and unchris~
tian-like to imagine.
(3.) Nor can God necessitate man to sin. Indeed sin cannot be
committed by force; there is no sin but is in some sort voluntary;
voluntary in the root, or voluntary in the branch; voluntary by an
immediate act of the will, or voluntary by a general or natural incli~
nation of the will. That is not a crime to which a man is violenced,
without any concurrence of the faculties of the soul to that act; it is
indeed not an act, but a passion; a man that is forced is not an
agent, but a patient under the force: but what necessity can there
he upon man from God, since he hath implanted such a principle in
him, that he cannot desire anything but what is good, either really
or a parently; and if a man mistakes the object, it is his own fault;
for god hath endowed him with reason to discern, and liberty of
will to choose upon that judgment. And though it is to be ao-
knowledged that God hath an absolute sovereign dominion over his
creature, without any limitation, and may do what he pleases, and
dispose of it according to his own will, as a “potter doth with his
vessel” (Rom. ix. 21); according as the church speaks (Isa. lxiv. 8),
“We are the clav, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of
thy hand;” yet he cannot pollute any) undefiled creature by virtue
of that sovereign power, wlnch he hat to do what he will with it;
because such an act would be contrary to the foundation and ri ht
ot' his dominion, which consists in the excellency of his nature,  
immense wisdom, and unspotted purity; if God should therefore do

