.124 cruauocx ON THE xrramuras.
any such act, he would expungie the right of his dominion by blot-
ting out that nature which ren ers him fit for that dominion, and the
exercise of it.' Any dominion which is exercised without the rules
of oodness, is not a t1'ue sovereignty, but an insupportable tyra.nn .
God would cease to be a rightful Sovereign if he ceased to be goodl;
and he would cease to be good, if he did command, necessitate, or by
any positive operation, incline inwardly the heart of a creature di-
rectly to that which were morally evil, and contrary to the eminency
of his own nature. But that we may the better conceive of this, let
us trace man in his Brst fall, whereby he subjected himself and all
his posterity to the curse of the law and hatred of God; we shall
find no footsteps, either of precept, outward force, or inward impul-
sion.' The plain story of man’s apostasy dischargeth God from any
interest in t e crime as an encouragkement, and excuseth him from
any appearance of suspicion, when e showed him the tree he had
reserved, as a mark of his sovereignty, and forbad him to cat of the
fruit of it; he backed the prohibition with the threatening the great-
est evil, vzb. death ; which could be. understood to imply nothing lem
than the loss of all his halppiness; and in that couched an assurance
of the perpetuity of his fe icity, if he did not, rebelliously, reach forth
his hand to take and “eat of the fruit” (Gen. ii. 16, 17). It is true
God had given that fruit an excellency, “ a goodness for food, and a
pleasantness to the eye” (Gen. iii. 6). He had given man an ayépe
tite, whereby he was capable of desiring so pleasant a fruit; but Od
had, by creation, arranged it under the command of reason, if man
would have kept it in its due obedience; he had 'fixed a severe.
threatening to bar the unlawfiil exclusions of it; he had allowed him
a multitude of other fruits in_ the garden, and given him liberty
gouge  satisfy h1;1pur1os1tt)y_ m allbeitcéafé t5nshonl _ Could ther;
an in more o gmg man, e o ave is reserve o
that oiie trge, than the grant of all the rest; and more deterring from
any disobedient attempt than so' strict a command, spirited with so
dreadful a penalty? God did not solicit him to rebe against him;
a solicitation to it, and a. command against it, were inconsistent.
The devil assaults him, and God permitted it, and stands, as it were,
a spectator of the issue of the combat. There could be no necessity
upon man to listen to,_ and entertain the suggestions of the segent;
he   a power to resist hun, and he   an answer ready for lthe
devil s arguments, had they been multiplied to more than they were;
the opposing the order of God had been a suilicient confutation of
all the devil’s plausible reasonings; that Creator, who hath given me
D1 being, hat ordered me not to eat of it. Though the pleasure
ofythe fruit might allure him, yet the force of his reason might have_
quelled the liquorishness of his sense; the perpetual thinking of, and
sounding out, the command of God, had s enced both Satan and his
own appetite; had disarmed the tempter, and preserved his sensitive
part in its due subjection. What inclination can we suppose there
could be from the Creator, when, upon the veri; first offer of the
temptation, Eve opposes   the tempxter the pro bition- and threat-
pnxng of God, and strains it to a hig er peg than we find God had
' Amyrald. Disert. pp. 103, 104. ' Amyrald. Defeus. de Calvin. pp. 151, 162.

