ON 'rss Homssss or con. 125
delivered it in? For in Gen. ii. 17, it is, “ You shall not eat of it ;”
but she adds (Gen. iii. 3), “ Neither shall you touch it ;” which was
a remark that might have had more influence to restrain her. Had
our hrst parents kept this fixed upon their understandings and
thoughts, that God had forbidden any such act as the eating of the
fruit, and that he was true to execute the threatening he had uttered,
of which truth of God they could not but have a natural notion, with
what ease might they have withstood the devil’s attack, and defeated
his design! And it had been easy with them, to have kept their
understandings by the force of such a thought, from entertaining any
contrary imagination. There is no ground for any jealous of any
encouragernents, inward im ulsions, or necessity from God, in this
affair. A discharge of God) from this first sin will easily induce a
freedom of him from all other sins which follow u n it. God doth
not then encourage, or excite, or incline to sin. Iiigw can he excite
to that which, when it is done, he will be sure to condemn? How
can he be a righteous Judge to sentence a sinner to misery for a
crime acted by a secret inspiration from himself? Iniquity would
deserve no re roof from him, if he were any wa positively the
author of it. }ilVere God the author of it in us, wlilat is the reason
our own consciences accuse us for it, and convince us of it? that,
being God’s deputy, would not accuse us of it, if the sovereign power
by which it acts, did incline us to it. How can he be thought -to
excite to that which he hath enacted such severe laws to restrain, or
incline man to that which he hath so dreadfully punished in his Son,
and which it is impossible but the excellency of his nature must in-
cline him etemall to hate? We may sooner imagine, that a pure
flame shall engender cold, and darkness be the oflspring of a sun-
beam, as imagine such a thing as this. “What shall we say, is there
unrighteousness with God? God forbid.” The apostle execrates
such a thought (Rom. ix. 14.) _
6. God cannot act any evil, in or by himseltl If he cannot a -
prove of sin in others, nor excite any to iniquit , which is less, liie
cannot commit evil himself; which is eater; what he cannot pos-
itively will in another, can never be willed in himself; he cannot do
evil through ignorance, because of his infinite knowledge; nor
through weakness, because of his iniinite power; nor through malice,
because of his infinite rectitude. He cannot will any unjust thing,
because, having an infinitely perfect understanding, he cannot judge
that to be true which is false; or that to be good which is evil: his
will is regulated by his wisdom. If he could will any unjust and
irrational thing, his will would be repugnant to his understanding;
there would be a disagreement in God, will ainst mind, and will
against wisdom ; he being the highest reason,a5xe first truth, cannot
db an unreasonable, false, defective action. It is not a defect in God
that he cannot do evil, but a fulness and excellency of power; as it
is not a weakness in the light, but the perfection of it, that it is un-
able to produce darkness ; “ God is the Father of lights, with whom
is no variableness" (James i. 17). Nothing leases him, nothin is
acted by him, but what is beseeming the ingnite excellency of his
ovm nature; the voluntary necessity whereby God cannot be unjust,

