126 crnnnocir ON rss s'rrnmU'rr.s.
renders him a God blessed forever; he would hate himself forthe
chief good, if, in aniy of his actions, he should disagree with his good-
ness. He cannot o any unworthy thin , nct because he wants an
infinite power, but because he is possessed of an infinite wisdom, and
adorned with an infinite purity; and being innnitely pure, cannot
have the least mixture of impurity. As if ,you can suppose tire in-
initely hot, you cannot suppose it to have t e least mixture of cold-
ness; the better anything is, the more unable it is to do evil; God
being the only goodness, can as little be changed in his goodness as
in his essence.
H. The next inquiry is, The proof that God is holy, or the mani-
festation of it. Purity is as reguisite to the blessedness of God, as
to the being of God; as he cou d not be God without being blessed,
so he could not be blessed without bein holy. He is called by the
title of Blessed, as well as by that of ioly (Mark xiv. 61); “ Art
thou the Christ, the son of the Blessed ?” Unrighteousness is a misery
and turbulency in any spirit wherein it is; for it is a privation of an
excellency which ought to be in every intellectual being," and what
can follow upon the privation of an exoellency but unquietness and
grief; the moth of hap iness? Au unrighteous man, as an unright»
eous man, can never be blessed, though he were in a local heaven,
Had God the least spot upon his purit , it would render him as mis»
erable in the midst of his infinite suéciency, as iniquity rendersa
man in the confluence of his earthl enjo ments. The holinew and
felicity of God are inseparable in llvim. The apostle intimates that
the heathen made an attem t to sull his blessedness, when they
would liken him to corruptsde, mutable, impure man (Rom. i. 23,
25): “They changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an
image, made like to corruTpltible man ;” and after, he entitles God a
“ God blessed forever.” e goripel is therefore called, “The glorious
gospel of the blessed God” (1 im. i. 11), in re ard of the holiness
of the gospel prece ts, and in regard of the deiaration of the holi-
ness of God in all tlie streams and branches, wherein his purity, in
which his blessedness consists, is as illustrious as an other perfection
of the Divine Being. God hath highly manifested’ this attribute in
the state of nature; in the legal administration; in the dispensation
of the gos l. His wisdom, goodness, and power, are declared in
creation; ll; sovereign authority in his law; his grace and mercy
in the gospel, and his righteousness in all. _Suitable to this threefold
state, may be that eternal repetition of his holiness in the prophecy
gsa. vi. 3); holy, as Creator and Benefactor; holy, as Lawgiver and
udge; holy, as Restorer and Redeemer.
First, His holiness appears, as he is Creator, in framin man in a
Eerfect uprightness. Angels, as made by God, could not be evil; for
od beheld his own works with leasure, and could not have pro-
nounced thern all good, had some seen created ure, and others im-
pure; two moral contrarieties could not be good? The angels had a
rst estate, wherein they were happ (Jude 6); and had they not
left their own habitation and state, tlley could not have been miseb
able. But, because the Scripture speaks only of the creation of
man, we will consider, that the human nature was well strung and

