ON THE HOLINESS OF GOD. 12
tuned bv God, according to the note of his own holiness (Eccles. vii.
212; “ God hath made man upright :" he had declared his power in
ot er creatures, but would declare in his rational creature, what he
most valued in himself; and, therefore, created him upright, with a
wisdom which is the reetitude of the mind, with a purity which is
the rectitude of the will and affections. He had declared a purity
in other creatures, as much as they were capable of, viz. in the exact
tuning them to answer one another. And that God, who so well
tuned and com osed other creatures, would not make man a _jarring
instrument, and) .place a cracked creature to be Lord of the rest of his
earthly fabric. (rod, being holy, could not set his seal upon any
rational creature, but the impression would be like himself, »ure and
holy also; he could not be created with an error in his understand-
ing; that had been inconsistent with the goodness of God to his
rational creature; if so, the erroneous motion of the will, which was
to follow the dictates of the understanding, could not have been im-
puted to him as his crime, because it would have been, not a volun-
tary, but a necessary effect of his nature; had there been an error in
the first wheel, the error of the next could not have been imputd
to the nature of that, but to the irregular motion of the first wheel
in the en `ne. The sin of men and an els, proceeded not from any
natural dilfeet in their understandings, §ut from inconsideratiou; l i
that was the author of harmony in his other creatures, could not t J
the author of disorder in the chief of his works. Other creaturts
were his footsteps, but man was his image §Gen. i. 26, 27): “Let us
make man in our ima e, after our likeness ;’ which, though it seems
to imply no more in that place, than an image of his dominion over
the creatures, yet the apostle raises it a peg higher, and gives us a
larger interpretation of it (Col. iii. 10): “ And ave put on the new
man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of Him that
created him ;” making it to consist in a resemblance to his righteous-
ness. Image, say some, notes the form, as man was a spirit in reg; :rd
of his soul; likeness, notes the quality implanted in his spiritual na-
ture; the image of God was drawn in him, both' as he was a rational,
and as he was a holy creature. '1‘he creatures manifested the bei tg
of a superior (power, as their cause, but the righteousness of the first
man evidence , not only a sovereign power, as the donor of his being,
buts hol power, as the pattern of his work. God ap eared to be a
holy Gody m the righteousness of his creature, as welll as an undt r-
Btanding God in the reason of his creature, while he formed him
with all necessary knowledge in his mind and all necessary upright-
HUB in his will. The law of love to God, with his whole soul, T is
whole mind, his whole heart and strength, was originally written
upon his nature; all the parts of his nature were framed in a moral
oonformitgf with God, to answer this law, and imitate God in his
P11rity,w ich consists in a love of himself, and his own goodness
and excellency. Thus doth the clearness of the stream point us to
the purer fountain, and the brightness of the beam evidence a greater
Splendor in the sun which shot it out.
Secondly, His holiness appears in his laws, as he is a Lawgiver
And a Judge. Since man was bound to be subject to God, as a. crea-

