128 cnarmocx ON 'ran Arrnraurss.
ture, auu had a capacity to be ruled by the law, as an understand-
ing and willing creature; God gave him a. law, taken from the
depths of his holy nature, and suited to the original faculties of man.
The rules which God hath fixed in the world, are not the resolves
of bare will, but result particularly from the goodness of his nature;
they are nothing else but the transcripts of his infinite detestation
of sin, as he is the uublemished governor of the world. Thisbeing
the most adorable property of his nature, he hath impressed it upon
that law which he would have inviolably observed as a rpetual
rule for our actions, that we may every moment think of this beau-
tiful perfection. God can command nothing but what hath some
similitude with the rectitude of his own nature; all his laws, every
paragraph of them, therefore, scent of this, and glitter with it (Deut.
iv. 8): “What nation hath statutes and judgments so righteous as
all this law I set before you this day ?” and, therefore, they are com-
pared to fine gold, that ath no speck or dross (Ps. xix. 10).
This purity is evident-1. In t e moral law, or law of nature. 9.
In the ceremonial law. 3. In the allurements annexed to it, for
kee inff it, and the affrightments to restrain from the breaking of it.
4. ih the judgments inflicted for the violation of it.
1. In the moral law: which is therefore dignified with the title of
Holy, twice in one verse (Rom. vii. 12): “\Vherefore, the law is holy,
and the commandment is holy, just, and good ;" it being the express
image of God’s will, as our Saviour was ofhis erson, and bearingare
semblance to the purity of his nature. The tagles of this law were put
into the ark, that, as the mercy seat was to represent the grace ofG0d,
so the law was to represent the holiness of God (Ps. xix. 1). The Psalm-
ist, after he had spoken of the glory of God in the heavens, wherein the
power of God is exposed to our view, introduceth the law, wherein the
pxffy of God is evidenced to our minds (ver. 7, 8,   “ Perfect, pure,
clcan, righteous,” are the titles given to it. It is c earer in holiness
than the sun is in brightness ; and more mighty in itself; to command
the conscience, than the sun is to run its race. As the holiness of
the Scripture demonstrates the divinitv of its Author; so the holi-
ness of the law doth the urity of the liawgiver.
(1.) The purity of this law is seen in the matter of it. It prescribes
all that becomes a. creature towards God, and all that becomes one
creature towards another of his own rank and kind. The image of
Gel is complete in the holiness of the first table, and the righteous-
ness of the second; which is intimated by the a ostle (Eph. iv. 24),
the one being the rule of what we owe to God, the other being the
rule of what we owe to man: there is no good but it enjoins, and
no evil but it disowns. It is not sickly and lame in any part of it;
not a good action, but it gives it its due praise; and not an evil ac-
tion, but it sets a condemniu mark upon. The commands of it are
frequently in Scripture called judgments, because they rightly judge
of good and evil; and are a clear light to inform the judgment of
man in the knowledge of both. By this was the understanding of
David enlightened to know every false way, and to “hate it” (Pa
cxix. 104). There is no case can happen, but may meet with a de-
termination from it ; it teaches men t e noblest manner of living I
1

