ON 'ms HoL1N1»:ss or con. 129
life like God himself; honorably for the Lawgiver, and joyfully for
the subject. It directs us to the highest end ; sets us at a distance
from all base and sordid practices; it roposeth light to the under-
standing, and goodness to the will. Ii) would tune all the strings,
set right all the orders of mankind: it censures the least mote, coun-
tenanceth not any stain in the life. Not a wanton glance can meet
with any justification from it (Matt. v. 28) ; not a rash anger but it
frowns u on (ver. 22). As the Lawgiver wants nothing as an ad-
dition to liis blessedness, so his law wants nothing as a supplement
toits perfection (Dent. iv. 2). What our Saviodr seems to add, is
not an addition to mend any defects, but a restoration of it from the
corrupt glosses, wherewith the Scribes and Pharisees had eclipsed
the brightness of' it: they had curtailed it, and diminished art of
its authority, cutting off its empire over the least evil, andp left its
power only to check the grosser practices. But Christ restores it to
the due extent of its sovereignty, and shows it those dimensions in
which the holy men of God considered it as “exceeding broad” (Ps.
cxix. 96), reachiplg to all actions, all motions, all circumstances at-
tending them; f of inexhaustible treasures of righteousness. And
though this law, since the fall, doth irritate sin, it is no disparage-
ment, but a testimon to the ri hteousness of it; which the apostle
manifests by his “ Vlyhcrefore   vii. 8), sin, taking occasion by
the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concu iscence ;”
and repeating the same sense (ver. 11), subjoins a “Ygherefore”
(ver. 12), “ Nl:/'herefore the law is holy.” The rising of men’s sinful
hearts against the law of God, when it strikes with its preceptive
and minatory parts u on their consciences, evidenceth the holiness
of the law and the lijawgiver. In its own nature it is a directing
rule, but the malignant nature of sin is exasperated by it; as an
hostile quality in a creature will awaken itself at the appearance of
its enemy. The purity of this beam, and transcript of God, bears
witness to a greater clearness and beauty in the sun and original.
Undetiled streams manifest an untainted fountain.
(2.) It is seen in the manner of its precepts. As it prescribes all
good, and forbids all evil, so it doth enjoin the one, and banish the
other as such. The laws of men command virtuous things; not as
virtuous in themselves, but as useful for human society; which the
magistrate is the conservator oi; and the guardian of justice* The
laws of men contain not all the precepts of virtue, but only such as
are accommodated to their customs, and are useful to preserve the
ligaments of their government. The desivn of them is not so much
torenfler the subjects good men, as good) citizens: they order the
practice of those virtues that may strengthen civil society, and dis-
countenance those vices only which weaken the sine\vs of it: but
God, being the guardian of universal righteousness, doth not only
enact the observance of all righteousness, but the observance of it
as righteousness. He commands that which is just in itself; enjoins
virtues as virtues, and prohibits vices as vices: as they are profitable
Or injurious to ourselves, as well as to others. Men command tem-
perance and justice; not as virtues in themselves, but as they pre-
* Ames de Consc lib v. cap. 1. quest. 7. ,
vol.. 11.-9

