130 c:11.mNocK ON rua ATTRIBUTES.
vent disorder and confusion in a commonwealth ; and forbid adultery
and theft, not as vices in themselves, but as they are intrenchments
upon property ; not as hurtful to the person that commits them, but
as hurtfu to the person against whose right the are committed.
Ufpon this account, perhaps, Paul applauds the holiness of the law
o God in regard of its own natiue, as considered in itself; more
than he doth the justice of it in regard of man, and the goodness
and convsniency gf it Otp ‘the world (Rom.   12); the law is holy
twice, an 'ust an o ut once.
(3.) In tlie spirituil extent of it. The most righteous powers of
the world do not so much regard in their laws what the inward af
fections of their subjects are: the external acts are only the objects
of their decrees, either to encourage them if they be useful, or dis~
courage them if they be hurtful to the community. And, indeed,
they can do no other, for they have no power roportioned to in-
ward affections, since the inward disposition falls not under their
censure ; and it would be foolish for any legislative power to make
such laws, which it is impossible for it to put in execution. They
'can prohibit the outward acts of theft and murder, but they cannot
command the love of God, the hatred of sin, the contempt of the
world; they cannot rohibit unclean thoughts,_and the atheism of
the heart. But the liiw of God surmounts in righteousness all the
laws of the. best-regulated commonwealths in the world: it restrains
the licentious heart, as well as the violent hand; it damps the very
first bubblings of corrupt nature, orders a purity in the spring, com~
mands a clean fountain, clean streams, clean vessels. It would frame
the heart to an inward, as well as the life to an outward righteous-
ness, and make the inside purer than the outside. It forbids the Hrsi.
belchings- of a murderous or adulterous intention: it obligeth a man
as a rational creature, and therefore exacts a conformitv of every
.rational faculty, and of whatsoever is under the command of them.
1<It commands theprivate closet to be free from the least cobwcb, as
, well as the outward porch to be clean from mire and dirt. It frowns
,upon all stains and pollutions of the most retired thoughts: hence
lthe apostle calls it a “s iritual law” (Rom. vii. 14), as not political,
l but extending its force fhrther than the frontiers of the man; placing
i its ensigns in the metropolis of the heart and mind, and curbing
,with its sceptre the inward motions of the spirit, and commanding
Ove; tlge secretsioffegery man’s brea;_st.D Th d
.nrearoteeetuitoit euritan e_etuit
of it)are linlid togetherpbypthe l§almist (Ps.   95: “ Tliie lfear of
the Lord is clean, enduring for ever ;” the fear of the Lord, that is,
that law which commands the fear and worship of God, and is the
rule of it. And, indeed, God values it at such a rate, that rather
than part with a tittle, or let the honor of it lie in the dust, he
would not oul let “heaven and earth pass awa ,” but expose his
Son to death fzir the reparation of the wrong it had sustained. S0
holy it is, that the holiness and righteousness of God cannot dis-
pense with it, cannot abrogate it, without des oiling himself of his
own being: it is a copy of the eternal law. (gan he ever abrogate
the command of love to himself, without showing some contempt

