ON 'I-HE Honnvnss or son. 181
of his own excellency and very being? Before he can enjoin a
creature not to love him, he must make himself unworthy of love,
and worthy of hatred; this would be the highest unrighteousness,
to order us to hate that which is only worthy of our highest aifec-'
tions. So God cannot change the Hrst command, and order us to
worship many gods; this would be against the excellency and unity
of God: for God cannot constitute another God, or make anything
worthy of an honor equal with himself" Those things that are
good, only because they are commanded, are alterable b God:
those things that are intrinsically and essentiall ood, and’ there-
fore commanded, are unalterable as long as the `h<§iness and right-
eousness of God stand firm. The intrinsic goodness of the moral
law, the concern God hath for it; the erpetuity of the precepts of
the Hrst table, and the care he hath had to imprint the recepts of
the second upon the minds and consciences of men, as the Author
of nature for the preservation of the world, manifests the holiness
of the Lawmaker and Governor.
2. His holiness appears in the ceremonial law: in the variety of
sacrifices for sin, wherein he writ his detestation of unrighteousness
in bloody characters. His holiness was more constantly ex ressed
in the continual sacrifices, than in those rarer s rinklin of) judg-
ments now and then upon the world; which ofiizn reachsed, not the
worst, but the most moderate sinners, and were the occasions of
the questioning of the righteousness of his providence both by
Jews and Gentiles. In judgments his purit was only now and
then manifest: by his long patience, he might he imagined by some
reconciled to their crimes, or not much concerned in them; but by the
morning and evening sacriice he witnessed a pe etual and unin-
terrupted abhorrence of whatsoever was evil. ldpesides those, the
occasional washings and sprinklings upon ceremonial deilements,
which olluted only the body, gave an evidence, that ever thing
that had a resemblance to evil, was loathsome to him. Add, also,
the prohibitions of eating such and such creatures that were Hlthy;
as the swine that wallowed in the mire, a it emblem for the ro-
ihne and brutish sinner; which had a moral signification, botli, of
the loathsomeness of sin to God, and the aversion themselves ought
to have to everything that was hlthy.
3. This holiness a pears in the a lurements annexed to the law
for keeping it, and the affri htments to restrain from the breaking
of it. Both promises and tireatenings have their fundamental root
in the holiness of God, and are both branches of this peculiar perfec-
tion. As they res ect the nature of God, they are declarations of his
hatred of sin, andlhis love of righteousness; the one belong to his
threatenings, tht other to his promises; both 'oin together to repre-
sent this divine perfection to the creature, and to excite to an imi-
tation in the creature. In the one, God would render sin odious
because- dangerous, and curb the practice of evil, which would
otherwise be licentious; in the other, he would commend righteous-
ness, and excite a love of it, which would otherwise be cold. By
there God suits the two great affections of men, fear and hope;
' Suarez.

