132 cnumocx on mn irrsmurss.
both the branches of self-love in man: the (promises and threaten-
ings are both the branches of holiness in od. The end of the
promises is the same with the exhortation the apostle concludes from
them (2 Cor.   1); “Having these promises, let us cleanse our-
selves from all tilt iness of iiesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in
the fear of God.” As the end of precept is to direct, the end of
threatenin s is to deter from iniquity, so that the promises is to
allure to oiedience. Thus God breathes out his love to righteous-
ness in every promise; his hatred of sin in every threatening. The
rewards offered in the one, are the smiles of pleased holiness; and
the curses thundered in the other, are the sparklings of enraged
ri hteousness.
g4. His holiness appears in the judgment inflicted for the violation
of this law. Divine oliness is the root of Divine `ustice, and Divine
justice is the triumph of Divine holiness. Hence both are expressed
in Scripture by one word of righteousness, which sometimes signi-
fies the rectitude of the Divine nature, and sometimes the vindicative
stroke of his arm (Ps. ciii. 6); “The Lord executeth righteousness
and judgment for all that are oppressed.” So (Dan. ix. 7g “ Righ-
teousness gist is, justice) belongs to thee.” The vials of is wrath
are ‘filled m his implacable aversion to iniquity. All penal evils
shower down upon the heads of wicked men, s read their root in,
and branch out from, this perfection. All the dreadful storms and
tempests in the world are blown up by it. Why doth he “rain
snares, fire and brimstone, and a horrible tempest ll’ Because “ the
righteous Lord loveth righteousness” (Ps. xi. 6, 7). And, as was
observed before, when he was going about the dreadfulest work that
ever was in the world, the overturning the Jewish state, hardening
the hearts of that unbelieving people, and cashiering a nation, once
dear to him, from the honor of his rotection; his holiness, as the
spring of all this, is applauded by dire seraphixns (Isa. vi. 3, com-
pared with ver. 9-11), &c. Impunity argues the approbation of a
crime, and punishment the abhorrenc of it. The greatness of the
crime, and the righteousness of the Jiiidge, are the first natural sen-
timents that arise in the minds of men upon the applearance of Di-
vine judgments in the world, by those that are near t em ;1 as, when
men see gibbets erected, seaifolds prepared, instruments of death
and torture provided, and grievous punishments iniiicted, the first
reflection in the spectator is the malignigy of the crime, and the de-
testation the governors are possessed wit .
(1). How severely hath he pimished his most noble creatures for
itl The once glorious angels, upon whom he had been at greater
cost than upon any other creatures, and drawn more lively linea
ments of his own excellency, upon the transgression of his law, are
thrown into the furnace of justice, without any mercy to pity them
(Jude 6); And though there were but one sort of creatures upon
the eart that bore his image, and were only fit to publish and kee
up his honor below the heavens, yet, upon their apostasy, though
upon a temptation from a subtle and msinuati spirit, the man,
with all his posterity, is sentenced to misery innglife, and death at
‘ Amirant. Moral. Tom. V. p. 388.

