ON THE Hournrss or con. 188
last; and the woman, with all her sex, have standing punishments
indicted on them, which, as they begun in their persons, were to
reach as far as the last member of their successive generations. So
holy 's God, thathe will not endure a spot in his choicest work.
Men, indeed, when there is a crack in an excellent piece of work, or
a stain upon a rich garment, do not cast it away; they value it for
the remaining excellency, more than hate it for the contracted spot;
but God saw no excellency in his creature worthy regarding, after
the image of that which he most esteemed in himself was defaced.
(2). How detestable to him are the very instruments of sin l For the
ill use the serpent, an irrational creature, was put to by the devil, as
an instrument in the fall of man, the whole brood of those animals
are cursed (Gen. iii. 14), “cursed above all cattle, and above every
beast of the field.” Not only the devil’s head is threatened to be
for ever bruised, and, as some think, rendered irrecoverable upon
this further testimony of his malice in the seduction of man, who,
perhaps, without this new act, might have been admitted into the
arms of mercy, notwithstanding his first sin; “though the Scrip-
ture gives us no account of this, only this is the only sentence we
read of pronounced against the devil, which puts him into an irre-
coverab e state by a mortal bruising of' his head.” But, I say, he
is not only punished, but the organ, whereby he blew in his temp~
tation, is put into a worse condition than it was before. Thus God
hated the sponge, whereby the devil deformed his beautiful image:
thus God, to manifest his detestation of sin, ordered the beast,
whereby any man was slain, to be slain as well as the malefactor
(Lev. xx. 15). The gold and silver that had been abused to idolatry,
and were the ornaments of images, though good in themselves, and
incapable of a criminal nature, were not to be brought into their
houses, but detested and abhorred by them, because they were
cursed, and an abomination to the Lord. See with what loathing
expressions this law is enjoined to them (Deutt vii. 25, 26). So
contrary is the holy nature of God to every sin, that it cluseth
everything that is instrumental in it.
(3.) How detestable is everything to him that is in the sinner’s
possession! The very earth, which God had made Adam the pro-
prietor of; was cursed for his sake (Gen. iii. 17, 18). It lost its beauty,
and lies languishing to this day; and, notwithstandin the redemp-
tion by Christ, hath not recovered its health, nor is itdike to do, till
the completing the finite of it upon the children of God (Rom. viii.
20-22). The whole lower creation was made subject to vanity, and
put into pipgs, upon the sin of man, bg' the righteousness of God
etesting ` offence. How often hath is implacableaversion from
sin been shown, not only in his judgments upon the oi’fender’s per-
son, but by wrapping u , in the same jud ent, those which stood
in a near relation to tiheml Achan, wiin his children and cattle,
are overwhelmed with stones, and biuued together (Josh.   24, 25).
In the destruction of Sodom, not only the grown malefactors, but
the young spawn, the infants, at present incapable of the same wick-
edness, and their cattle, were bumed up by the same fire from
heaven; and the place where their habitations stood, is, at this day,

