134 CHARNOCK ON THE A'1'I‘RIBUTES.
partly a her .p of ashes, and partly an infectious lake, that chokes any fish
that swims into it from Jordan, and stifles, as is related, by its va or,
any; bird that attempts to fly over it. O, how detestable is sin to (god,
that causes him toturn a pleasant land, as the “ garden of the Lord" (as
it is styled Gen. xin. 10), into alake of sulphur; to make it, both in his
word and works, as a lastingl monument of his abhorence of evil!
(-1.) What design hath Go` in all these acts of severity and vin-
dictive justice, but to set off the lustre of his holiness? He testifies
himself concerned for those laws, which he hath set as hedges and
limits to the lusts of men; and, therefore, when lie breathes forth
his fiery indi nation against a peo le, he is said to get himself hon-
or: as when lie intended the Red gea should swallow up the Egyp-
tian army (Exod. xiv. 17, 18), which Moses, in his triumphant song,
echoes back again (Exod. xv. 1): “ Thou hast triumfphed glorious-
iyp" glpriouslly in his holiness, which is tlker glory o lslslfiature, as
oses imse inter rets it in the text. hen men ` not own
the holiness of God,lin a way of dut , God will vindicate it in a way
of justice and unishment. In the destruction of Aaron’s sons, that
were will-worslhippers, and would take strange fire, “ sanctified" and
“ glorified” are con led (Lev. x. 3); he glorided himself in that act,
in vindicating his llioliness before all the people, declaring that he
will not endure sin and disobedience. He doth therefore, in this
life, more severely punish the sins of his people, when they presume
upon any act of disobedience, for a testimony that the nearness and
dearness of any person to him shall not ma e him unconcerned in
his holiness, or be _a plea for impurity. The end of all his jud -
ments is to witness to the world his abominating of sin. To punisi
and witness against men, are one and the same thing (Micah i. 3);
“ The Lord shall witness against you ;” and it is the witness of Go ’s
holiness (Hos. v. 5); “ And the pride of Israel doth testify to his
face :” one renders it the exeellency of Israel, and understands it of
God p: the word vm, which is here in our translation, “ pride,” is
rendered “ excellency” (Amos viii. 7): “The Lord God hath swom
by his excellencay ;" which is interpreted “ holiness" (Amos iv. 2):
“ The Lord Go hath sworn by his holiness.” What is the issue or
end bf this swearing by “ holiness,” and of his “ excellency" testif -
ing against them? In all those places you will find them to ge
sweeping Zjudgments: in one, Israe and Ephraim shall “ thll in their
iniquity ;’ in another, he will “take them away with hooks," and
“their posterity with Hsh-hooks ;” and in another, he would “never
forget any of their works.” He that Slmisheth wickedness in those
he before used with the greatest ten erness, furnisheth the world
with an undeniable evidence of the detestableness of it to him. Were
not jud ments sometimes poured out upon the world, it would be
believed that God were rather an approver than an enemy to sin.
To conclude, since God hath made a stricter law to guide men, an-
nexed promises above the merit of obedience to allure them, and
tlircatinings dreadful enough to afiright men from disobedience, he
cannot be the cause of sin, nor a lover of it. How can he be the
author of that which he so severely forbids; or love that which he
delights to punish; or be fondly indulgent to any evil, when he

