ON 'mrs Honmsss or con. 135
hates the ignorant instruments in the oifences of his reasonable
creatures 'I
Thirdly. The holiness of God appears in our restoration. It is in
the glass of the gospel we behold the “glory of the Lord" (2 Cor.
iii. l8); that is, the glory of the Lord, into whose image we are
changed; but we are changed into nothing, as the ima e of God,
but into holiness: we bore not upon us by creation, nor by regene-
ration, the image of any other perfection : we cannot be changed
into his omnipotence, omniscience, &c., but into the image of his
righteousness. This is the leasing and glorious sight the gospel
mirror darts in our eyes. Tiie whole scene of redemption is nothing
else but adiscovery of judgment and righteousness (Isa. i. 27) : “ Zion
shallbe redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness.”
1. This holiness of God appears in the manner of our restoration,
ms. by the death of Christ. Not all the vials of judgments, that have,
or shall be poured out upon the wicked world, nor the flaming furnace
of a sinners conscience, nor the irreversible sentence pronounced
against the rebellious devils, nor the groans of the damned creatures,
give such a demonstration of God’s hatred of sin, as the wrath of God
let loose upon his Son. Never did Divine holiness appear more bean-
tiful and lovely, than at the time our Saviour’s countenance was most
marred in the midst of his dying groans. This himself acknowledges in
that prophetieal psalm (xxii. 1, 2), when God had turned his smilin
face from him, and thrust his sharp knife into his heart, which forced
that terrible cry from him, “ My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken
me?" He adores this perfection of holiness (ver. 3), “But thou art
holy ;" thv holiness is the spring of all this sharp agony, and for this
thou inhabitest, and shalt forever inhabit, the praises of all thy Israel.
Holiness drew the veil between God’s countenance and our Saviour's
soul. Justice indeed gave the stroke, but holiness ordered it. In
this his urity did sparkle, and his irreversible justice manifested
that all tliose that commit sin are worthy of death; this was the
perfect index of his “righteousness” (Rom. iii. 25), that is, of his
oliness and tmth ; then it was that God thatisholy, was “ sanctified in
righteousness” (Isa. v. 16). It appears the more, if you consider,
(1.) The dignity of the Redeemer’s person. One that had been
from eternity; had laid the foundations of the world; had been the
object of the Divine delight: he that was God blessed forever, be-
come a curse; he who was blessed b angels, and by whom God
blessed the world, must be seized witii horror; the Son of eternity
must bleed to death ! When did ever sin appear so irreconeileable
to God? Where did God ever break out so furiously in his detes-
tation of iniquity ? The Father would have the most excellent er-
son, one next in order to himself and equal to him in all the gibri-
0118 perfections of hisnature (Phil. ii. 6), die on a disgraceful cross, and
be exposed to the flames of Divine wrath, rather than sin should live,
Rnd hls holiness remain forever disparaged by the violations of his law.
, (2.) The near relation he stood in to the Father. He was his
“own Son that he delivered u ” (Rom. viii. 32); his essential image,
as dearly beloved by him as himself ; yet he would abate nothing
of his hatred of those sins imputed to one so dear to him, and wht

