136 cnannocx ON THE Arrnrsnrns.
never had done anything contrary to his will. The strong cries
uttered by him coul not cause him to cut off the least fringe of this
royal garm,;3nt,,In,pr poart vxithfa thrlead the rolée of hishholinesg :ras
woven wi . e rren o - wra is opene upon un, an ne
Father’s heart beats not in the least notice of tenderness to sin, in the
midst of his Son’s agonies God seems to la aside the bowels of a
father, and put on the garb of an irreconcilealile enemy; upon which
account, probably, our Saviour in the midst of his passion gives him
the title of God; not of Father, the title he usually before addressed
to hivmtylvith, gidaltt.  46), “ Ml! God, ,pry (grind ;” nolzlgy Father,
my a er - w y ou orsa en me eseems ang upon
the cross like a disinherited son, while he ap(peared in the garb and
rank of a sinner. Then was his head loade with curses, when he
stood under that sentence of “ Cursed is every one that hangs upon
a tree” _(Gal. iii. 13), and looked as one forlorn and rejected by
the Divine purity and tenderness. God dealt not with him as if he
had been one in so near a. relation to him. He left him not to the
will only of the instruments of his death ; he would have the chiefest
blow himself of bruising of him (Isa. liii. 10): “It pleased the Lord
to bruise him :” the Lord, because the power of creatures could not
strike a blow strong enough to satisfy and secure the rights of infi-
nite holiness. It was therefore a cup tempered and put into his
hands by his Father' a cup given him to drink. In other judg-
inents he lets out his ifvrath against his creatures; in this he lets out
is wrath as it were against himself; against his Son one as dear to
him as hiinselfl Asiin his making creatures, his power over nothing
to bring it ipto being appekqred; utrn pagprgng sin he hath powler
over himsel ' so in punis 'ng creatures, ` oliness appears in is
wrath against creatures, against sinners by inherency; but by pun-
ishing sin in his Son, his holiness sharpens his wrath against him
who was his equal, and onlyda reputed sinner; as if his affection to
his own holiness surmounte his affection to his Son: for he chose
to suspend the breakings out of his affections to his Son, and see
him plunged in a sharp and ignominious misery, without giving
him any visible token o his love, rather than see his holiness lie
groanixglg under the injuries of a transgressing world.
(3.) he value he puts upon his holiness appears further in the
advancement of this redeeming person, after his death. Our baviour
was advanced, not barely) for his dying, but for the respect he had
in his death to this attri ute of God Shleb. i. 9); “Thou hast loved
righteousnei ind hatlfdhinicauiayz t erefore God, even thy God,
hath anointe t ee wit t e oi o gladness ” &c. By righteousness
is meant this perfection, because of the opposition of itifo iniquity.
Some think “ therefore” to be the final cause; as if this were the sense,
“Thou art anointed with the oil of gladness, that thou mightest love
righteousness and hate iniquity.” But the Holy Ghost seeming to
speak in this chapter not only of the Godhead of Christ but of his
exaltation; the doctrine whereof he had begun in ver. 3, and pro-
secutes in the following verses, I would rather understand “ there-
fore," for “ this cause, or reason, hath God anointed thee ;” not “ to
I Lingond. Tom. III. pp. 699, 700.

