on 'rss nonnvms or Goo. 137
this end." Christ indeed had an unction of grace, whereby he was
fitted for his mediat/ory work; he had also an unction of glory,
whereby he was rewarded for it. In the irst regard, it was a
qualifying him for his office; in the second regard, it was a solemn
inaugurating him in his royal authority. And the reason of his
bein settled upon a “throne for ever and ever," is, “because he
loved righteousness.” He suffered himself to be pierced to death,
that sin, the enemy of God’s purity, might be destroyed, and the
honor of the law, the image of God’s holiness, might be re aired
and fulfilled in the fallen creature. He restored the credit of liiivine
holiness in the world, in manifesting, by his death, God an irrecon-
cileable enemy to allsin; in abolishing the empire of sin, so hateful
to God, and restoring the rectitude of nature, and new framing the
imageof God in his chosen ones. And God so valued this vindica-
tion of his holiness, that he confers upon him, in his human nature,
an eternal royalty and empire over angels and men. Holiness was
the great attribute respected by Christ in his dying, and manifested
in his death; and for his love to this, God would bestow an honor
:pon his person, in that nature wherein he did vindicate the honor
so dear a perfection. In the death of Christ, he showed his
resolution to preserve its rights; in the exaltation of Christ, he
evinced his mighty leasure tbr the vindication of it; in both, the
infinite value he hadp for it, as dear to him as his life and glory.
(4.) It may be further considered, that in this way of redemption,
his holiness in the hatred of sin seems to be valued above any other
attribute. He proclaims the value of it above the person of his
Son; since the Divine nature of the Redeemer is disguised, obscured,
and vailed, in order to the restoring the honor of it. And Christ
seems to value it above his own erson, since he submitted himself
to the reproaehes of men, to clbar this perfection of the Divine
nature, and make it illustrious in the eyes of the world. You heard
before, at the beginnin of the handling this argument, it was the
beauty of the Deity, Sie lustre of his nature, the link of all his
attributes, his very life; he values it equal with himself, since he
Sweats by it, as Well as by his life; and none of his attributes would
have a due decorum without it; it is the glory of power, mercy
£ustice, and wisdom, that they are all holy; so that though God
ad an infinite tenderness and com assion to the fallen creature, et
it should not extend itself in his relief to the prejudice of the rights
of his purity: he would have this triumph in the tenderness of his
mercy, as well as the seventies of his justice. His mere had not
appeared in its true colors, nor attained a regular end; without
vengeance on sin. It would have been a compassion that would,
in sparing the sinner, have encouraged the sin, and affronted holi-
nem in the issues of it: had he dispersed his eompassions about tho
world, without the regard to his hatred of sin, his mercy had been
too cheap, and his holiness had been contemned; his mercy would
not have trium hed in his own nature, whilst his holiness had
suffered; he had) exercised a mercy with the impairing his own
glory; but now, in this way of redemption, the rights of both are
secured, both have their due lustre: the odiousness of sin is equally

