138 CHARNOGK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
discovered with the greatest of his eompassions; an infinite abhor-
rence of sin, and an miinite love to the world, march hand in hand
together. Never was so much of the irreconcileableness of sin to
him set forth, as in the moment he was opening his bowels in the
reconciliation of the sinner. Sin is made the chiefest mark of his
displeasure, while the poor creature is made the highest object of
Divine pity. There could have been no motion of mercy, with the
least in_]ur to purity and holiness. In this way mercy and truth,
mercy to tlie misery of the creature, and truth to the purit of the
law, “ have met together ;” the righteousness of God, and the peace
of the sinner, “have kissed each other” (Ps. lxxxv. 10).
2. The holiness of God in his hatred of sin appears in our justin-
cation, and the conditions he requires of all that would enjoy the
benefit of redem tion. His wisdom hath so tempered all the condi-
tions of it, that the honor of his holiness is as much preserved, as
the sweetness of his mercy is experimented by us; all t e conditions
are records of his exact uxity, as well as of his condescending grace.
Our justification is not hy the imperfect works of creatures, but by
an exact and infinite righteousness, as' at as that of the Deity
which had been offended: it being the rigousness of a Divine per-
son, upon which account it is called the righteousness of God; not
only in regard of God’s appointing it, and God’s accepting it, but as
it is a righteousness of that person that was God, and is God. Faith
is the condition God requires to justification ; but not a dead, but an
active faith, such a “faith as purities the heart" (James   20 ; Acts
xv. 9). He calls for repentance, which is a moral retracting our oil
fences, and, an a probation of contenmed righteousness and a vio-
lated law ; an enclhavor to gain what is lost, and to pluck out the heart
of that sin we have committed. He requires mortification, which is
called erucifying; whereby a man would strike as ihll and deadly a
blow at his lusts, as was struck at Christ upon the cross, and make
them as certainly die, as the Redeemer did. Our own righteousness
must be condemned by us, as impure and imperfect: we must dis-
own everything that is our own, as to righteousness, in reverence to
the holiness of God, and the valuation of the righteousness ofCl1rist.
He hath resolved not to bestow the inheritance of glory without the
root of grace. None are partakers of the Divine blessedness that
are not partakers of the Divine nature: there must be a renewing
of his image before there be a. vision of his face (Heb. xii. 14). He
will not have men brought only into a relative state of happiness by
justification, without a real state of (grace by sanctification; and so
resolved he is in it, that there is no a mittance into heaven of a start-
ing, but a persevering holiness (Rom.   7), “a patient continuanco
in well-doing :” patient, under the sharpness of atlliction, and contin-
uing, under the pleasures of prosperity; Hence it is that the gospel,
the restoring doctrine, hath not only t e motives of rewards to allure
to good, and the danger of punishments to scare us from evil, as the
law had ; but they are set forth in a higher strain, in away of stronger
en agement; the rewards are heaven y, and the punis ments eter-
mf: and more powerful motives besides, from the chfnicer expres-
sions of God’s love in the death of his Son. The whole design of

