ON 'run Honmnss or con. 139
it is to reinstate us in a resemblance to this Divine perfection ; where-
by he shows what an affection he hath to this excellency of his
nature, and what a detestation he hath of evil, which is contrary
to it
3. It appears in the actual regeneration of the redeemed souls,
and a carrying it on to afull perfection. As election is the effect
of God’s sovereignt , our pardon the fruit of his mercy, our knowl-
edge astream from his wisdom, our strength an im ression of his
power; so our purity is a beam from his holiness. 'lgie whole work
of sanctification, an the preservation of it, our Saviour begs for his
disciples of his Father, under this title (John xvii. 11, 17): “Holy
Father, keep them through thy own name,” and “sanctify them
through thy truth ;” as the proper source whence holiness was to
flow to the creature: as the sun is the proper fountain whence light
is derived, both to the stars above, and the bodies here below.
Whence He is not only called Holy, but the Holy One of Israel
(Isa. xliii. 15), “I am the Lord your Holy One, the Creator of Is-
raelz” displaying his holiness in them, by a new creation of them as
his Israel. As the rectitude of the creature at the first creation was
the effect of his holiness, so the purity of the creature, by a new
creation, is a draught of the same perfection. He is called the Holy
One of Israel more in Isaiah, that 'evangelical prophet, in erecting
Zion, and forming a eople for himself, than in the whole Scripture
besides. As he sent llesus Christ to satisf his justice for the expia-
tion of the guilt of sin, so he sends the Holy Ghost for the cleans-
ing of the filth of sin, and overmastering the power of it: Himself
is the fountain, the Son is the pattern, and the Holly Ghost the im-
mediate imprinter of this stam of holiness upon t e creature. God
hath such a value for this attribute, that he designs the glory of this
in the renewing the creature, more than the happiness of the crea-
ture; thou h the one doth necessarily follow upon the other, yet
the one is tie principal design, and the other the consequent of the
former: whence our salvation is more frequently set forth, in Scrip-
ture, by a redemption from sin, and sanctification of the soul, than
byélpossession of heaven! Indeed, as God could not create a ra-
tio creature, without interesting this attribute in a special manner,
so he cannot restore the fallen creature without it. As in creating a
rational creature, there must be holiness to adorn it, as well as wis-
dom to form the design, and power to effect it; so in the restoration
of the creature, as he could not make a reasonable creature unholy,
so he cannot restore a fallen creature, and put him in a meet posture
totake pleasure in him, without communicating to him a resem-
blance of himself As God cannot be blessed in himself without
this perfection of urity, so neither can a creature be blessed without
it. As God woulfllbe unlovely to himself without this attribute, so
would the creature be unlovely to God, without a stamp and mark
of it upon his nature. So much is this perfection one with God,
valued b him, and interested in all his works and ways!
III. The third thing I am to do, is to lay down some proposition
in the defence of Grod’s holiness in all his acts, about, or concerning
I Tit. ii. 11-14, and many other places.
O

