140 cmsuocx ON 'inn Arrmsurss.
sin. It was a prudent and pious advice of Camero, not to be too
busy and rash in inquiries and conclusions about the reason of God’s
,providence in the matter of sin. The Scripture hath put a. bar in
the way of such curiosity, by telling us, that the ways of God’s wis-
dom and righteousness in his jud ments are “unsearchable” (Rom.
xi. 33): much more the ways of érod’s holiness, as he stands in re-
lation to sin, as a. Governor of the world; we cannot consider those
things without danger of slip ing: our eyes are too weak to look
upon the sun without being dazzled: too much curiosity met with a
just checkin our first parent. To be desirous to know the reason
of all God’s roceedings in the matter of sin, is to second the am-
bition of Adlam, to be as wise as God, and know the reason of his
actings equally with himself It is more easy, as the same author
saith, to give an account of Gocl’s providence since the revolt of
man, and the poison that hath universally seized upon human na-
ture, than/to make guesses at the manner of the fall of the iirst man.
The Scripture hath given us but a short account of the manner of
it,` to discourage too curious inquiries into it. It is certain that God
made man upright; and when man sinned in paradise, God was ac-
tive in sustaining the substantial nature and act of the sinner while
he was sinning, though_not in supporting the sinfulness of the act:
he was permissive in suffering it: he was negative in witholding
that grace which' might certainly have (prevented his crime, and con-
sequently his ruin; though he with‘hel nothing that was sufficient
for his resistance of that temptation wherewith he was assaulted.
And since the fall of man, God., as a Wise overnor, is directive of
the events of the transgression, and draws the choicest good out of
the blackest evil, and limits the sins of men, that they creep not so
far as the evil nature of men would urge them to; and as a right-
eous Judge, he takes away the talent from idle Slrvants, and the
light from Wicked ones, whereby the stumble and 'fall into crimes,
by the inclinations and proneness of tlirieir own corrupt natures, leaves
them to the bias of then' own vicious habits, denies that grace which
they have forfeited, and have no right to challenge, and turns their sin-
ful actions into unishments,both to the committers of them and others.
Prop. I. Godls holiness is not chargeable with an blemish for his
creating man in a mutable state. It is true, angels and men were
created with a changeable nature; as though there was a. rich and
glorious stamp upon them by the hand of God, yet their natures
were not incapable of a base and vile stamp from some other prin-
ciple: as the silver which bears upon it the image of a great prince,
is capable of beinv' melted down, and imprinted with no better an
image than that 0? some vile and monstrous- beast. Though God
made man upright, yet he was capable of seeking “many inven-
tions” (Eccl. vii. 29); yet the hand of God was not dcfiled by form~
ing man with such a. nature. It was suitable to the wisdom of God
to give the rational creature, whom he had furnished with a power
of acting righteously, the liberty of choice, and not fix him in an
unchangeable state without a trial of him in his natural; that if he
didobey, his obedience might be the more valuable; and if he did
freely offend, his offence might be more inexcusable.

