on rss HoL1Nnss or con. 141
1. No creature can be capable of immutability by nature. Mu-
mbility is so essential to a creature, that a creature cannot be sup-
pmed without it; you must suppose it a Creator, not a creature, if
you allow it to be of an immutable nature. Immutability istheqpro-
perty of the Supreme Being. God “only hath immortality” (1 ‘iin.
vi. 16); immortality, as opposed not only to a natural, but to a sin-
iiil death; the word only appropriates every sort of immortality to
God, and excludes every creature, whether angel or man, from a
partnership with God in this by nature. Every creature, therefore,
is capable of a death in sin. “ None is good but God,” _and none is
naturally free from change but God, which excludes every creature
h'om the same prerogative; and certainly, if one angel sinned, all
might have sinned, because there was the same root of mutability in
one as well as another. It is as possible for a creature to be a
Creator, as for a creature to have naturally an incommunicable pro-
perty of the Creator. All things, whether angels or men, are made
of nothin , and therefore, capable of defection ;° becausea creature
being mage of nothing, cannot be good, per essentiam, or essentially
good, but by participation from another. Again, every rational
creature, being made of nothing, hath a superior which created him
and overns him, and is capable of a precept; and, consequently,
capable of disobedience as well as obedience to the precept, to
tmnsgres it, as well as obey it. God cannot sin, because he can
have no superior to impose a precept on him. A rational creature,
with a liberty of will and power of choice, cannot be made by na-
ture of such a mould and temper, but he must be as well capable of
choosing wrong, as of choosing right; and, therefore, the standing
angels, and lorified saints, though they are immutable, it is not by
nature that giey are so, but by grace, and the good pleaslue of God;
for though they are in heaven, they have still in their nature a. re-
mote power of sinning, but it shal never be brou ht into act, be-
cause God will always incline their wills to love him, and never
concur with their wills to any evil act. Since, therefore, mutability
Bessential to a. creature as a creature, this changeableness cannot
properly be charged upon God as the author of it; for it was not
the term of God’s creating act, but did necessarily result from the
nature of the creature, as unchangeableness doth result from the es-
sence of God. The brittleness of a. glass is no blame to the art of
lnm that blew up the glass into such a fashion; that imperfection
of brittleness is not from the workman, but the matter; so, though
unchangeableness be an imperfection, yet it is so necessary a one,
that no creature can be naturally without it; besides, though angels
and men were mutable by creation, and capable to exercise their
Wills, yet they were not necessitated to evil, and this mutability did
not infer a necessity- that the should fall, because some angels,
which had the same root of changeableness in their natures with
those that fell, did not fall, which they would have done, if
capableness of changing, and necessity of changing, were one and
the same thing. »
2. Though God made the creature mutable, yet he made him not
I Suarez, VoL II. p. 548.

