142 cmnuoox ON 'rim annmvrms.
evil. There could be nothing of evil in him that God created after
his own image, and pronounced “good” (Gen. i. 27, 31). Man had
an ability to stand, as well as a ca acity to fall: he was created with
a princilpal of acting freely, wherelby he was capable of loving God
as his c.1ief good, and moving to him as his last end; there was a
beam of light in man’s understanding to know the rule he was to
conform to, a harmony between his reason and his affections, an
original righteousness: so that it seemed more easy for, him to de-
termine his will to continue in obedience to the prece t, than to
swerve from it; to adhere to God as his chief good, than to lis-
ten to the charms of Satan. God created him with those advan-
tages, that he mi ht with more facility have kept his eyes fixed
upon the Divine ieauty, than turn his back upon it, and with
greater ease have kept t e Sgecept God gave him, than have broken
lt. The very first thought rte , or impression made, by God, upon
the angelical or human nature, was the knowledge of himsel as
their Author, and could be no more than such whereby both angels
and men might be excited to a love of. that adorable Being, that had
framed them so gloriously out of nothing; and if they turned their
wills and affections to another object it was not b the direction
of God, but contrar to the impression God had made upon them,
or the first thought lie flashed into them. They t1u~ned themselves
to the admiring their own excellency, or affecting an advantage dis~
tinct from that which they were to look for only from God (1 Tim.
iii. 6). Pride was the cause of the condemnation of the devil.
Though the wills of angels and men were created mutable, and so
were imperfect, yet they were not created evil. Thou h they might
sin, yet the might not sin, and, therefore, were not evil in their own
nature. VVYhat reflection, then, could this mutability of their nature
be upon God? So far is it from any, that he is fully cleared, by
storing up in the nature of man suiiicient provision against his de-
parture from him. God was so far from creating him evil, that hc
ortified him with a knowledge in his understanding, and a strength
in his nature to withstand any invasion. The knowledge was ex-
ercised by Eve, in the very moment of the serpent/s assaultin her
(Gen. iii. 3); Eve said to the serpent, “God hath said, ye shald not
eat of it:" and had her thoughts been intent upon this, “ God hath
said," and not diverted to the motions of the sensitive appetite and
liquorish palate, it had been sufficient to ut by all the passes the
devil did, or could have made at her. So that you see, though God
made the creature mutable, yet he made him not evil. This clears
the holiness of God.
3. Therefore it follows, That though God created man chan ble,
yet he was not the cause of his change by his fall. Thougaman
was created defectible, yet he was not determined by God iniluencin
his will by any positive act to that change and apostasy. God ulaced
him in a ree posture, set life and happiness before him on the one
hand, miserv and death on the other; as he did not draw him into
the arms of perpetual blessedness, so he did not drive him into the
gulf of his misery.” He did not incline him to evil. It was repugnant
\' Amyr. Moral. Tom. I. pp. 615, 016.

