on 'nm nomnsss or con. 148
wtlilgvodness of God to corrupt the righteousness of those faculties
he h so lately beautified him with. It was not likely he should
deface the beauty of that work he had composed with so much wis-
dom aud skill. Would he, by any act 'o. his own, make that had,
which, but a little before, he had acquiesced in as good? Angels
and men were left to their liberty and conduct of their natural facul-
ties; and if God inspired them with any motions, they could not but
be motions to good, and suited to that righteous nature he had endued
lheni with. But it is most probable that God did not, in a supernatural
way, act inwardly upon the mind of man, but left him wholly to that
power. which he had, in creation, furnished him with. The Scrip-
ture frees God fully from any blame in this, and lays it wholly upon
Satan, as the tempter, and upon man, as the determiner of his own
will (Gen. iii. 6); Eve “took of the fruit, and did eat;” and Adam
took from her of the fruit, “and did eat.” And Solomon (Eccles.
vii. 29) distinguisheth God’s work in the creation of man “ upright,”
from man‘s work in seeking out those ruining inventions. God
created man in a righteous state, and man cast himself into a forlorn
state. As he was a mutable creature, he was from God; as he was
achangefl and corrupted creature, it was from the devil seducing,
and his own pliablcness in admitting. As silver, and gold, and other
metals, were created by God in such a form and figure, yet capable
of receiving other forms by the industrious art of man; when the
image of a man is put upon a iece of metal, God is not said to create
that image, thou h he created) the substance with such a property,
that it was capable oi' receiving it; this capacity is hom the nature
ofthe metal by fi01l°s creation of it, but the carving the figure of this
or that man is not thc act of God, but the act of man. As images,
in Scripture, are called the work of men’s hands, in regard of the
imagery, though the matter, wood or stone, upon which the image
was carved. was a work of God’s creative power. When an artiiicer
frames an excellent instrument, and a musician exactly tunes it, and
it comes out cf their hands without a blemish, but capable to be un-
tuned by some rude hand, or receive a crack by a suddc _ fall, if it
meet with a disaster, is either the Workman or musician to he blamed?
The ruin of a house, caused by the wastefulncss or carelessness of the
tenant, is not to be imputed to the Workman that built it strong, and
li-it it in a good  
Prop. II. God s holiness is not blemished by enjoining man a law,
which he knew he would not observe.
1. The law was not above his strength. Had the law been impos-
sible to be observed, no crime could have been imputed to the sub-
ject, the fault had lain wholly upon the Governor; the non-observ-
ance of it had been from a want of strength, and not from a want of
will. Had God comnifmiled Adam to ily up to the sun, when he
had not given him wings. Adam might have a will to obey it, but
his power would be too short to perform it. But the law set him for
a rule, had nothing of impossibility in it; it was easy to bc observed;
the command was rather below, than above his strength; and the
sanction of it was more apt to restrain and scare him from the breach
of it, than encourage any daring attempts against it; he had as much

