I4-4; CHAIRNOOK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
power, or rather more, to conform to it, than to warp from it; and
greater arguments and interest to be observant of it, than to violate
it; his all was secured by the one, and his ruin ascertained by the
other. The commands of God are not grievous il John v. 3); from
the first to the last command, there is nothing impossible," nothing
hard to the original and created nature of man, which were all sum-
med up in a love to God, which was the pleasure and delight of man,
as well as his duty, if he had not, b inconsiderateness, neglected the
dictates and resolves of his own understanding. The law was suited
to the strength of man, and fitted for the improvement and perfection
of his nature; in which respect, the apostle calls it “ good,” as it refers
to man, as well as "holy," as it refers to God (Rom. vii. 122; Now,
since God created man a creature capable to be governed y a law,
and as a rational creature endued with understanding and will, not
to be governed, according to his nature, without a law; was it con-
gruous to the.wisdom of God to respect only the future state of man,
which, from the depth of his infinite knowledge, he did infallibly
foresee would be miserable, by the wilful defection of man from the
rule? Had it been agreeable to the wisdom of God, to respect only
this future state, and not the present state ofthe creature; and there-
fore leave him lawless, because he knew he would violate the law?
Should God forbear to act like a wise governor, because he saw that
man would cease to act like an obedient subject? Shall a righteous
magistrate forbear to make just and good laws, because he foresees,
either from the dispositions of his subjects, their ill-humor, or some
circumstances which will intervene, that multitudes of them will
incline to break those laws, and fail under the penalty of them? N 0
blame can be upon that magistrate who minds the rule of righteous
ness, and the necessary duty of his government, since he is not the
cause of those turbulent affections of men, which he wisely foresees
will rise up against his just cficts.
2. Though the law now be above the strength of msn, yet is not
the holiness of God blemished by keeping_it`up. It is true, God bath
been graciously pleased to mitigate the severity and rigor of the law,
by the entrance of the gospel; yet where men refuse the terms of the
goapel, they continue themselves under the condemnation of the law,
an are justly guilty of the breach of it, though they have no strength
to observe it. The law, as I said before, was not above man’s strength,
when he was possessed of original righteousness, though it be above
man’s strength, since he was stripped of original righteousness. The
command was dated before man had contracted his im otency, when
he had a power to keep it as well as to break it. Had it been enjoined
to man only after the fall, and not before, he might have had a better
pretence to excuse himself, because of the impossibility of it; yet he
would not have had sutlicient excuse, since the impossibility did not
result from the nature of the law, but from the corrupted nature of
the creature. It was “weak through the flesh" (Rom. viii. 3), but it
was promulged when man had a. strength proportioned to the com-
mands of it. And now, since man hath unhappily made himself
incapable of obeying it, must God’s holiness in his law be blemished
for enjoining it? Must he abrogate those commands, and prohibit

