oN"rnn nomnnss or cont ~ '145
wliatbefore he enjoined, for the 'satisfaction of the con'uptcd creature?
Would not this be his “ceasing to be hol ,” that his creature might
be unblameably unrighteous? Must God, strip himself of his holi-
ness, because man will not discharge his iniquit ? He cannot be
the cause of sin, by keeping up the law, who would be the cause of
all the unrighteousness of men, by removing the authority of it.
Some things in the law that are intrinsically good in their own
nature, are indispensable, and it is repu nant to the nature of God
not to command them. If he were not the guardian of his indispen-
sable law, he would be the cause and countenancer of the creatures’
iniquity. So little reason have men to charge God with being the
cause of their sin, by not xgpealin his law to gratify their impotence,
that he would be unholy ` he dui God must not lose his purity,
because man hath lost his, and cast away the right of his sovereignty,
because man hath cast away his power of obedience.
3. God’s foreknowledge that his law would not be observed, la s
no blame upon him. Though the foreknowledge of God be infallible,
yet it doth not necessitate the creature in acting. It was certain
from eternity, that Adam would fall, that men would do such and
such actions, that Judas would betray our Saviour; God foreknew
all those things from eternity; but, it is as certain that this fore-
knowledge did not necessitate the will of Adam, or any other branch
of his posterity, in the doing those actions that were so foreseen by
God; they vo untarily run into such courses, not by any im ulsion.
God’s knowledge was not suspended between certainty and) uncer-
tainty; he certainly foreknew that his law would be broken by
Adam; he foreknew it in his own decree of not hinderin him, by
giving Adam the efficacious grace which would infallibly liave pre~
vented it; yet Adam did free break this law, and never imagined
that the foreknowledge of God did necessitate him to it; he could
find no cause of his own sin, but the liberty of his own will; h'e
charges the occasion of his sin upon the woman, and consequently
upon God in givinglthe woman to him (Gen. iii. 12). He could not
be so ignorant of t e nature of God, as to imagine him without a
foresight of future things: since his knowledge of what was to be
known of God by creation, was greater than any man’s since, in all
probability. But, however, if he were not acquainted with the no-
tion of God’s foreknowledge, he could not be ignorant of his own act;
there could not have been any necessity* upon him, any kind of con-
straint of him in his action, that could ave been unknown to him_
and he would not have omitted a plea of so strong a nature, when he
was upon his trial for life or death; especialg when he urgeth, so
weak an argument, to impute his crime to od, as the gift of the
woman; as if that which was designed him for a help, were intend-
ed for his ruin. If Grod’s rescience takes away the liberty of the
creature, there is ne such tllling as a free action in the world (for there
is nothing done but is foreknown by God, else we render God of a
limited understandin ), nor ever was, no, not by God himself; ad we
lm; for whatsoever he hath done in creation, whatsoever he hath
done since the creation, was foreknown bly him: he resolved to do
it, and, therefore, foreknew that he Wo cl do it. Did God do it,
vol.. 11.-10

