146 CHARNOCK ON rm: Arrnrsvrns.
therefore, necessaril , as necessity is opposed to liberty? As he
freel decrees what he will do, so he effects what he freely decreed
Foreknowledge is so far from intrenching upon the liberty of the will,
that predetermination, which in the notion of it s eaks something
more, doth not dissolve it; God did not only foreknow, but deter-
mine the suffering of Christ (Acts iv. 27, 28). It was necessary,
therefore, that Christ should suffer, that God might not be mistaken
in his foreknowledge, or come short of his determinate decree; but
did this take away the liberty of Christ in suffering? (Eph. v. 2):
“Who offered himself u to God ;” that is, by a voluntary act, as
Well as designed to do it lgy a dcterminate counsel. It did infallibly
secure the event, but did not annihilate the liberty of the action,
either in Christ’s willingness to suffer, or the crime of the Jews that
made him suffer. God’s prescience is God’s rovision of things
arising from their proper causes; as a gardener diresees in his plants
the leaves and the Bowers that will arise from them in the spring,
because he knows the strength and nature of their several roots
which lie under ground; but his foresight of these things is not the
cause of the rise and appearance of those flowers. If any of us see a.
ship moving towards such a rock or quicksand, and know it to be
governed by a negligent pilot, we shall certainly foresee that the
ship will be torn in pieces by the rock, or swallowed up by the sands;
but is this foresi ht of ours from the causes, any cause of the effect;
or can we from hence be said to be the authors of the miscarriage
of the ship, and the loss of the passengers and goods? The fall of
Adam was foreseen by God to come to pass by the consent of his
free will, in the choice of the proposed temptation. God foreknew
Adam would sin, and if Adam would not have sinned, God would
have foreknown that he would not sin. Adam might easily have
detected the serpents fraud, and made a better election; God foresaw
that he would not do it; God’s foreknowledge did not make Adam
guilty or innocent: whether God had foreknown it or no, he was
uilty by a free choice, and a willing neglect of his own duty.
§dam knew that God foreknew that he might eat of the fruit, and
fall and die, because God had forbidden him; the foreknowledge
that he would do it, was no more a cause of his action, than the
foreknowledge that he might do it. Judas certainly knew that his
Master foreknew that he would betray him, for Christ had acquaint-
ed him with it (John xiii. 21, 26); yet he never charged this fore-
knowledge of Christ with any guilt of his treachery.
Pr . III. The holiness of God is not blemished by decreeing the
eterniii) rejection of some men. R/eirobatiori, in its nrst notion, is an
act of preterition, or passing by. man is not made wicked by the
the act of God; but it supposeth him wicked; and so it is nothing
else but God’s leaving a man in that guilt and filth wherein he be-
holds him. In its second notion, it is an ordination, not to a crime;
but to a punishment (Jude 4); “an ordaining to condemnation.
And though it be an eternal act of God, yet, in order of nature, it
follows upon the foresight of the transgression of man, and supposeth
the crime. God considers Adam’s revolt, and views the who e mass
of his corrupted posterity, and chooses some to 'reduce to himself by

