ON 'rim nonnvnss or con. 147
his grace, and leaves others to lie sinking in their ruins. Since all
mankind fell by the fall of Adam, and have corruption conveyed to
them successively by that root, whereof the are branches; all men
might justl be left wallowing in that miserabi condition to which they
are reduced by the apostasy of their common head; and God mi ht
have passed by the whole race of man, as well as he did the fallen
angels, without any hope of redemption. He was no more bound to
restore man, than to restore devils, nor bound to repair the nature
of any one son of Adam; and had he dealt with men as he dealt
with the devils, they had had, all of them, as little just ground to
complain of God; for all men deserved to be left to themselves, for
all were concluded under sin; but God calls out some to make
monuments of his grace, which is an act of the sovereign mere of
that dominion, whereby “he hath mercy on whom he will lilave
mercy” (Rom. ix. 18); others he passes by, and leaves them remain-
ing in that corruption of nature wherein they were born. If men
have a power to dis of their own goods, without any unright-
eousnex, why shoulgoiigt God dispose of his own grace, and bestow
it upon whom he pleases; since it is a debt to none, but a free gift
toany thatenjoy it? God is not the cause of sin in this, because
his operation about this is negative; it is not an action, but a denial
of action, and therefore cannot be the cause of the evil actions of
men.° God acts nothing, but withholds his power; he doth not en-
lighten their minds, nor incline their wills so powerfully, as to ex el
their darkness, and root out those evil habits which pomess themli
nature. God could, if he would, savingly enlighten the minds of all
men in the world, and quicken their hearts with a new life by an in-
vincible grace; but in not doing it, there is no positive act of God,
but a cessation of action. We may with as much reason sa ,that
God is the cause of all the sinful actions that are committed li the
corporation of devils, since their first rebellion, because he Iiaves
them to themselves, and bestows not a. new grace upon them,--as
say, God is the cause of the sins of those that he overlooks and leaves
in that state of guilt wherein he found them. God did not ass by
any without the consideration of sin; so that this act of G05 is not
repugnant to his holiness, but conformable to his justice.
Prop. IV. The holiness of God is not blemished by his secret will
to suiier sin to enter into the world. God never willed sin by his
preceptive will. It was never founded upon, or produced b any
word of his, as the creation was. He never said, Let there lie sin
under the heaven, as he said, “Let there be water under the hea-
ven.” Nor doth he will it by infusing any habit of it, or stirring up
inclinations to it; no, “God tempts no man” (James i. 13). Nor
doth he will it by his approving will; it is detestable to him, nor
ever can he be otherwise; he cannot approve it either before com-
mission or after.
1. The will of God is in some sort concurrent with sin. He doth
not properly will it, but he wills not to hinder it, to which, by his
oinnipotence, he could put a bar. If he did positively will it it
might be wrought by himself; and so could not be evil. If he iid
° Amyral. Defence de Calv. p. 145.

