148i cnsasocx ON rim srrnmums,
in no sort will it, it would not be committed by his creatine; sin
entered into the world, either God willing the permission of it, or
not willing the permission of it. The latter cannot be said; for than
the creature is more opowerful than God, and can do that which God
will not permit. G can, if he be pleased, banish all sin in a mo-
ment out of the world: he could have prevented the revolt of angels,
and the fall of man; they did not sin whether he would or no: he
might, by his grace, have stepfped in the first moment, and made a
special impression upon them o the happiness they already po ,
and the misery they would incur by any wicked attempt He could
as well have prevented the sin of the fallen angels, and confirmed
them in grace, as of those that continued in their happy state: he
might have aaippeared to man, informed him of the issue of hisde-
sign, and m e secret impressions upon his heart, since he wasac-
qluainted with every avenue to his will. God could have keptall
sin out of the world, as well as all creatures from breathing in it; he
was as well able to bar sin forever out of the world., as to let crea-
tures lie in the womb of nothingbwherein they were iirst wrapped.
To say God doth will sin as he th other things, is to deny his ho-
liness; to say it entered without anything of his will, is to deny his
omnipotence. If he did necessitate Adam to fall, what shall we
think of his purity? If Adam did fall without any concern of Gods
will in it, what shall we say of his sovereignty? The one taiuts his
holiness, and the other clips his power. If it came without anythinf'
of his win in it, and he did net foresee it, where is his omnisciencel
If it entered whether he wou_ld or no, where is his omnipot/ence
(Rom. ix. 19)? “ Who hath resisted his will ?” There cannot bea
lustful act in Abimelech, if God will withhold his power (Gen. xx.
6); “ I withheld thee :” nor a cursing word in Balaam's mouth, un-
less God give power to speak it Slfumb. xxii. 38): “ Have I now any
power at all to say anything? T e word that God puts in my mouth,
that shall I speak.” As no action could be sinful, if God had not
forbidden it; so no sin could be committed, if God did not will to
give way to it.
2. God doth not will directly, and by an efficacious will. He doth
not directly will it, because he hath prohibited it by his law, which
is a discovery of his will: so that if e should directly will sin, and
directly prohibit it, he would will good and evil in the same manner,
and there would be contradictions in God’s will: to will sin abso-
lutely, is to work it (Ps. cxv. 3): “God hath done whatsoever he
pleased.” God cannot absolutely will it, because he cannot work it.
God wills good by a positive decree, because he hath decreed to eifect
it.d He wills evil by a private decree, because he hath decreed not
to give that grace which would certainly prevent it. God doth not
will sin simply, for that were to approve it, but he wills it, in orderto
that good his wisdom will bring orth from it.” He wills not sin for
itself; but for the event. To will sin as sin, or as purely evil, is not
in the ca acity of a creature, neither of man nor devil. The will of
a rational creature cannot will anything but under the appearance
of' good, of some good in the sin itself; or some good in the issue of it
4 Rispolis. ° Bradward lib. i. mp. 34t “God wills it .wcundaun gall'

