ON 'ms Honmass or con. 149
Much more is this far from God, who, being infinitely good, cannot
will evil as evil; and being iniinitely knowing, cannot will that for
good which is evilf Infinite wisdom can be under no error or mis-
take: to will sin as sin, would be an unanswerable blemish on God;
but to will to suifer it in order to good, is the glory of his wisdom ;
it could never have peeped up its ead, unless there had been some
decree of God concerning it. And there had been no decree of God
concemin it, had he not intended to bring-good and lory out 'of it.
If God did directly will the discovery of his e ann? mercy to the
world, he did in some sort will sin, as that wiirdfit which there could
not have been any a pearance of mercy in the world; for an inno
cent creatine is not the object of mercy, but a miserable creature:
and no rational creature but must be sinthl before it be miserable.
3. God wills the permission of sin. He doth not positively will
sin, but he positively wills to permit it. And though he doth not
approve of sin, yet he approves of that act of his will, whereb he
permits it. For since that sin could not enter into the world without
some concern of God’s will about it, that act of his will that gave
way to it, could not be displeasing to him: God could never be dis~
pleased with his own act: “He is not as man, that he should repent”
(1 Sam. xv. 29). What God cannot repent of, he cannot but approve
of: it is contrary to the blessedness of God to disap rove of, and
be displeased with any act of his own will. If he liated any act
of his own will, he would hate himself, he would be under a torture:
every one that hates his own acts, is under some disturbance and
torment for them. That which is permitted by him, is in itself, and
in regard ofthe evil of it, hateful to him: but as the prospect of that
good which he aims at in the permission of it is pleasing to him, so
that act of his will, whereby he permits it, is ushered in by an ap-
proving act of his understanding. Either God approved of the per-
mission, or not; if he did not approve his own act of permission, he
could not have decreed an act of permission. It is inconceivable
that God should decree such an aet which he detested, and positively
will that which he hated. Though God hated sin, as being agains
his holiness, yet he did not hate the permission of sin, as being sub
servient by the immensity of his wisdom to his own glory. He could
never be displeased with that which was the result of his eternal
counsel, as this decree of permitting sin was, as well as any other
decree, resolved upon in his own breast. For as God acts nothing in
time, but what he decreed from eternity, so he permits nothing in
time but what he decreed from eternity to permit. To speak prop-
crly, therefore, God doth not will sin, but he wills the permission of
lt, and this will to permit is active and positive in God.
4. This act of permission is not a mere and naked permission, but
such an one as is attended with a certainty of the event. The decrees
of God to make use of the sin of man for the glory of his grace in
the mission and passion of his Son, hung upon this entrance of sin
Would it consist with the wisdom of God to decree such great and
stupendous things, the event whereof should depend upon an un-
certain foundation which he might be mistaken in? God would have
‘ Aquin. cont. Gent. lib. i. cap. 95.

