1.50 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
sat in counsel from eternity to no purpose, if he had only permitted
those things to be done, without any nowledge of the event of this
permission. God would not have made such plrovision for redemp-
tion to no urpose, or an uncertain purpose, W 'ch would have been,
if man had) not fallen; or if it had been an uncertainty with God
whether he would fall or no. Though the will of God about sin was
permissive, yet the will of God about that glory he would promote
y the defect of the creature, was positive; and, therefore, he would
not suffer so many positive acts of his will to hang upon an uncer-
tain event; and, therefore, he did wisely and righteously order all
things to the accomplishment of his great and gracious purposes.
5. This act of permission doth not taint the holiness of ‘ God.
That there is such an act as permission, is clear in Scripture (Acts
xiv. 16): “Who in times past suffered all nations to walkin their
own ways." But that it doth not blemish the holiness of God, will
appear,
lst. From the nature of this permission.
1. It is not a moral permission, a giving liberty of toleration by
an law to commit sin with impunity; when, what one law did for-
bidi another law doth leave indifferent to be done or not, as a man
sees good in himselfl As when there is alaw made among men,
that no man shall go out of such a city or country without license;
to go out without license is a crime by the law; but when that law is
repealed by another, that gives liberty for men to go and come at
their pleasure, it doth not make their going or coming necessary, but
leaves those which were before bound, to do as they see good in
themselves. Such a permission makes a fact lawful, though not nec-
essary; a man is not obliged to do it, but he is left to his own discre-
tion to do as he pleases, without being chargeable with a crime for
doing it. Such a permission there was granted by God to Adam of
eating of the fruits of the garden, to choose any of them for food,
except the tree of “ knowledge of good and evil.” It was a precept
to him, not to “eat of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good
and evil ;” but the other was a permission, whereb it was lawfu for
him to feed upon any other that was most agreeable to his ap tzite :
but there is not such a permission in the case of sin; this hadebeen
an indulgence of it, which had freed man from any crime, and, con-
sequently, from punishment; because, by such a ermission by law,
he woul have ad authority)to sin if he pleasemf God did not re-
move the law, which he had efore placed as a bar ainst evil, nor
ceased that moral impediment of his threatening: S1351 a permission
as this, to make sin lawful or indifferent, had been a blot upon God’s
holiness.
2. But this permission of God, in the case of sin, is no more than
the not hindering a sinful action, which he could have prevented.
It is not so much an action of God, as a sus nsion of his influence,
which might- have hindered an evil act, audi forbearing to restrain
the facilities of man from sin; it`is, properly, the not exerting that
eiiicacy which might change the counsels that are taken, and prevent
the action intended; as when one man sees another ready to fall,
and can preserve him nom falling by reaching out his hand, he PCI*

