ON mm Honmmss or son. 151
mils him to fall, that is, he hinders him not from falling. So God
describes his act about Abimelech (Gen. xx. 6); “ I withheld thee
from sinnin against me, therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.”
If Abimeleji had sinned, he had sinned by God’s permission; that
is, by God's not hindering, or not restraining him by making any im-
pressions upon him. So that permission is only a withholding that
elp and grace, which, if bestowed, would have been an effectual
remedy to prevent a crime; and it is rather a suspension, or cessa-
tion, t an properly a. permission, and sin ma be said to be commit-
ted, not without Gods permi ion, rather than by his permission.
Thus, in the fhll of man, God did not hold the reins strict upon
Satan, to restrain him from laying the bait, nor restrain Adam from
swallowin the bait: he kept to himself that eilicacious grace which
he might have darted out upon man to prevent his fall. God left
Satan to his malice of tempting, and Adam to his liberty of resisting,
and his own strength, to use that sufficient grace he had furnished
him with, whereby he might have resisted and overcome the temp-
tation. As he didnot drive man to it, so he did not secretl restrain
him from its So, in the Jews crucifying our Saviour, God, did not
imprint upon their minds, by his Spirit, a consideration of the great-
ness of the crime, and the horror of his justice due to it; and, bein
without_ those impediments, they run furiously, of their own accorrf
to the commission of that evil; as, when a man lets a wolf or dog
out upon his prey, he takes off the chain which held them, and they
presently act according to their natures.s In the fall of angels and
men, God's act was leaving them to their own strength; in sins after
the fall, it is God’s giving them up to their own corruption; the irst
is a pure suspension of ggace; the other hath the nature of a punish-
ment (Ps. lxxxi. 12): “ I gave them up to their own hearts l-usts.”
The first object of this permissive will o God was to leave angels
and men to their liberty, and the use of their free will, which was
natural to them,” not addin that supernatural grace which was
necessary, not that they should not at all sin, but that they should
infallibly not sin: they had a strength sufficient to avoid sin, but not
suiiicient infallibly to avoid sin; a grace suiiicient to preserve them,
but,not sufficient to confirm them.
3. Now this ermission is not the cause of sin, nor doth blemish
the holiness of god. It doth not intrench upon the freedom of me
but supposeth it, establisheth it, and leaves man to it. God acteld
nothing, but only ceased to act; and therefore could not be the eiii~
cient cause of man’s sin. As God is not the author of good, but by
willinv and efecting it, so he is not the author of evil, but b willing
and e§`ecting it, : but he doth not positively will evil, nor efii-ict it by
any eiiicacy of- his own. Permission is no action, nor the cause of
that action which is permitted; but the will of that person who is
permitted to do such an action is the ca.use.i God can no more be
said to be the cause of sin, by suffering a creature to act as it will,
than he can be said to be the cause of the not being of any creature,
b denying it being, and letting it remain nothing; it is not from
Gyod that it is nothing, it is nothing in itself Though God be said
l Igwson, p. 64. * Suarez, Vol. IV. p. 414. Snare; dn Legib. p. 48.

