152 CHARNOCK ON 'rrm armrnuras.
to be the cause of creation, yet he is never by any said to be the
cause of that nothing which was before creation. T is permission of
God is not the cause of sin, but the cause of not hindering sin. Man
and angels had a physical power of sinning from God, as they were
created with freewill, and supported in their natural strengt ; but
the moral power to sin was not from God; he counselled t em not
to it, laid no obligation upon them to use their natural power for
such an end; he only left them to their freedom, and not hindered
them in their acting what he was resolved to permit.
2d. The holiness of God is not tainted by this, because he was
under no obligation to hinder their commission of sin. Ceasing to
act, whereby to (prevent a crime or mischief; brings not a person
permitting it un er guilt, unless where he is under an obligation to
prevent it; but God, in regard of his absolute dominion, cannot be
charged with any' such obligation. One man, that doth not hinder
the murder of another, when it is in his power, is guilty of the mur-
der in part; but, it is to be considered, that he is under a tie by
nature, as being of the same kind, and being the other`s brother, by
a communion of blood, also under an obligation of the law of cha-
rity, enacted by the common Sovereign of the world: but what tie
was there upon God, since the ininite transcendancy of his nature,
and his sovereign dominion, frees him from an such obligation
(Job ix. 12)? “If he takes away, who shall say, elfhat dost thou ?"
God might have prevented the fall of men and angels; he might
have confirmed them all in astate of perpetuallinnocency; but where
is the obligation? He had made the creature a debtor to himseli
but he owed nothing to the creature. Before God can be charged
with any guilt in this case, it must be roved, not only that he could,
but that he was bound to hinder it. lib person can be justl charged
with another’s fault, merely for not preventing it, unless he be bound
to prevent it; else, not only the first sin of angels and man would
be imputed to God, as the Author, but all the sins,of men. He
could not be obliged by any law, because he had no superior to im-
pose any law upon him; and it, will be hard to prove that he was
oblig »d, from his own nature, to dprevent the entrance of sin, which
he would use as an occasion to eclare his own holiness, so trans-
cendent a erfection of his nature, more than ever it could have been
manifestedp by a total exclusion of it, mb. in the death of Christ. He
is no more bound, in his own nature, to greserve, by supernatural
grace, his creature from falling, after he ha framed him with a sufii-
cient strength to stand, than he was obliged, in his own nature to
bring his creature into being when it was nothing. He is not boind
to create a rational creature, much less boimd to create him with
supernatural gifts; though, since God would make a rational crea-
ture, he could: not but make him with a natural uprightness and
rectitufle. God did as much for angels and men as became a wise
governor: he had published his law, backed it with severe penalti@
and the creature wanted not a natural strength to observe and obe
it. Had not man power to obey all the precepts of the law, as wah
as one? How was God bound to 've im more grace, since what
he had already was enough to shielglhim, and keep up his resistance

