in-iif ----- _
ON 'ras Hounnss or son. 153
against all the power of hell? It had been enough to have pointed
his will against the temptation, and he had kept oil' the force of it.
Was there any promise past to Adam of any further grace which he
could plead as a tie upon God? No such voluntary limit upon
God’s supreme dominion appears upon record. W'as anything due
to man which he had not? anything promised him which was not
pertbrmed? “That action of debt, t en, can the creature bring
against God? Indeed, when man began to neglect the light of his
own reason, and became inconsiderate of the precept, God might
have enlightened his understanding by a special Hash, a supernatural
beam, and ~imprinted upon him a particular consideration of the
necessity of his obedience, the miseiéy he was approaching to by his
sin, the folly of any apprehension o an equality in knowledge; he
mivht have convinced him of the falsity of the serpent’s arguments,
and uncased to him the venom that lay under those baits. But how
doth it appear that God was bound to those additional acts when he
had alrea y lighted up in him a “ spirit, which was the candle of the
Lord” (Prov. xx. 27), whereb_y he was able to discern all, if he had
attended to it. It was enough that God did not necessitate man to
sin, did not counsel him to it; that he had given him sufficient warn-
ing in the threatening, and suihcient strength in his faculties, to for-
tify him against temptation. He gave him what was due to him as
a creature of his own framing; he withdrew no help from him, that
was due to him as a creature, and what was not due he was not bound
to impart. Man did not beg preserving grace of God, and God was
not bound to oiier it, when he was not petitioned for it especial] :
yet if he had beg ed it, God having before furnished him suiiiciently,
might, by the rigflit of his sovereign dominion, have denied it with’-
out any impeachment of his holiness and righteousness. Though he
would not in such a case have dealt so bountifully with his creature
as he might have done, yet he could not have been im leaded, as
dealing unrighteously with his creature. The single worg that God
had already uttered, when he gave him his precept, was enough to
oppose against all the devil’s wiles, which tended to invalidate that
word: the understanding of man could not imagine that the word
of God .was vainly s oken; and the very suggestion of the devil, as
if the Creator should, envy his creature, would have appeared ridic-
ulous, if he had attended to the voice of his own reason. God had
done enough for him, and was obliged to do no more, and dealt not
unrighteously in leaving him to act according to the principles of his
nature. To conclude, if God's rmission of sin were enough to
charge it upon God, or if God base been obliged to give Adam super-
natural grace, Adam, that had so ca acious a brain, could not be
without that plea in his mouth, “ Lordp thou mightest have prevented
it; the commission of it by me could not have been w'ithout thy per-
mission of itz” or, “ Thou hast been wanting to me, as the author of
my nature.” No such plea is brou ht by Adam into the court,
w en God tried and cast him; no sugi pleas can have any strength
in them. Adam had reason enough to know, that there was soili-
cient reason to overrule such a plea.
Since the permission of sin casts no dirt upon the holiness of God,

