154 cnaauocrc ON THE srrnmvrns.
as I think hath been cleared, we may under this head consider two
things more. ,
1. That God’s emission of sin is not so much as his restraint or
limitation of it. gince the entrance of the first sin into the world b
Adam, God is more a hinderer than a permitter of it. If he hath
permitted that which he could have prevented, he prevents a world
more, that he might, if he pleased, permit: the hedges about sin are
larger than the outlets; the are but a few streams that glide about
the world, in com arison ofy that mighty torrent he dams u both in
men and devils. Ilie that understands what a lake of Sodbm is in
every man’s nature, since the universal infection of human nature,
as the a ostle describes it (Rom. iii. 9, 10, &c.), must acknowledge,
that if dbd should cast the reins upon the necks of sinful men, they
would run into thousands of abominable crimes, more than they do:
the im ression of all natural laws would be rased out, the world
would be a ublie stew, and a. more bloody slaughter house; human
society would sink into a chaos; no starlight of commendable mo-
rality would be seen in it; the world would be no longer an earth,
but an hell, and have lain deeper in wickedness than it doth. If
God did not limit sin, as he doth the sea, and put bars to the wav 
of the heart, as well as those of the waters, and say of them, “Either-
to you shall- go, and no fi1rther;" man hath such a furious ocean in
him, as would overiiow the banks; and where it makes a breach in
one place, it would in a thousand, if God should-sufer it to act ao-
cording to its impetuous current. As the devil hath lust enough to
destroy all mankind, if God did not bridle him; deal with every
man as he did with Job, ruin their comforts, and deform their bodies
with scabs; infect religion with a thousand more errors; fling dis-
orders into commonwealths, and make them as a fiery furnace, full
of nothing but Hame ; if he were not chained by that powerful arm,
that might let him loose to fulnl his malicious iiiry; what rapines,
murders, thefts, would be committed, if he did not stint him! Abi-
melech would not only lust after Sarah, but deflourher; Laban not
only pursue Jacob, but rifle him; Saul not only hate David, but
murder him; David not only threaten Nabal, but root him up, and
his family, did not God girdle in the wrath of man :'= a greater re-
mainder of wrath is pent in, than flames out, which yet swells for an
outlet. God may be concluded more holy in preventing men’s sins,
than the author of sin in permitting some; since, were it not for his
restraints by the pull-bac of conscience, and infused motions‘ and
gutwgrd impediments, the world would swarm more with this cursed
roo .
2. His permission of sin is in order to his own glory, and a greater
ood. It is no reflection upon the Divine goodness to leave man to
his own conduct, whereby such a deformity as sin sets foot in the
world; since he makes his wisdom illustrious in bringing good out
of evil, and a good greater than that evil he suffered to pprmg up)
God did not permit sin, as sin, or permit it barely for itse _ As sm
is not lovely in its own nature, so neither is the permission of sin
intrinsically good or amiable for itself; but for those ends aimed at in
U Pa. lxxvi. 10. as the word “restra.in" siguilies. l Nadu: boman, saith Bradward.

