ON 'rim HOLINISS or son. 155
the permission of it. God permitted sin, but approved not of the
object of that permission, sm; because that, considered in its own
nature, is solely evil: nor can we think that God could ap rove of
the act of permission, considered only in itself as an act; ibut as it
respected that event which his wisdom would order by it. We can-
not suppose that God should permit sin, but for some great and glo-
rious end: for it is the manifestation of his own glorious erfections
he intends in all the acts of his will (Prov. xvi. 4), “ The liord hath
made all things for himself ”-Bra hath wrought all things; which
is not only his act of creation, but ordination: “ for himself,” that is,
for the discovery of the excellency of his nature, and the communi-
cation of himselfto his creature. Sin indeed, in its own nature, hath
no tendency to a good end; the womb of it teems with nothing but
monsters; it is a spurn at God’s sovereignty, and a slight of his good-
ness: it both deforms and wrments the person that acts it ; it is
black and abominable, and hath not a mite of goodness in the nature
of it. If it ends in any good, it is only from that Infinite transcen-
dency of skill, that can bring good out of evil, as well as light out
of darkness. Therefore Go id not permit it as sin, but as it was
an occasion for the manifestation of his own glory. Though the
goodness of God would have appeared in the preservation of the
world, as well as it did in the creation of it, yet his mercy could not
have appeared without the entrance of sin, because the object of
mercy 1S a miserable creature ; but man could not be miserable as
long as he remained innocent. The reign of sin opened a door for
the reign and triumph of grace (Rom. v. 21), “As sin hath reigned
unto death, so might grace reifgn through righteousness to eternal
life ;” without it, the bowels o merc had never sounded, and the
ravishing music of Divine grace couldy never have been heard by the
creature. Mercy, which renders God so amiable, could never else
have beamed out to the world. Angels and men upon this occasion
beheld the stirrings of Divine grace, and the tenderness of Divine na-
ture, and the glory of the Divine ersons in their several functions
about the redemption of man, which had else, been a s ring shut up,
and a fountain sealed; the song of glor to God, and) good will 'to
men in a way of redemption had never been sung by them. It ap-
pears in his dealing with Adam, that he permitted his fall, not on y
to show his justice m punishing, but principally his mercy in rescu-
ing; since he proclaims to him first t e promise of a Redeemer to
“bruise the serpent’s head,” before he settled the unishment he
should smart under in the world (Gen. iii. 15-17). ,Xnd what fairer
prospect could the creature have of the holiness of God, and his ha-
tred of sin, than in the edge of that sword of justice, which unished
it in the sinner; but glittered more in the punishment of a gurety so
near allied to him? Had not man been criminal, he could not have
been punishable, nor any been unishable for him: and the pulse of
Divine holiness could not have beaten so quick, and been so visible,
without an exercise of his vindicative justice. He left man’s mutable
nature, to fall under righteousness, that thereby he might commend
the righteousness of his own nature gltom. iii. 7). Adam’s sin in its
nature tended to the ruin of the wor d, and God takes an occasion

