' _
156 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
from it for the glory of his grace in the redem tion of the world; lie
brings forth thereby a new scene of wonders from heaven, and a sur-
prising knowledge on earth; as the sun breaks out more strongly
after a night of darkness and templest. Al God in creation framed
a chaos by his power, to manifest is wisdom in bringing order out
of disorder, light out of darkness, beauty out of confusion and de-
formity, when he was able by a word to have made all creatures
stand up in their beauty, without the precedency of a chaos; so God
permitted a moral chaos to manifest a greater wisdom in the repair-
ing a broken im e, and restoring a deplorable creature, and bring-
ing out those peiigections of his nature, which had else been wrapt up
in a perpetual silence in his own bosom. It was therefore very cou-
gruous to the holiness of God to permit that which he could make
subservient for his own glory, and particularly for the manifestation
of this attribute of holiness, which seems to be in opposition to such
a perm1ss1on.“\
Prop. V. The holiness of God is not blemished by his concurrence
with the creature in the material part of a sinful act. Some to nee
God from having any hand in sin, deny his concurrence to the ac-
tions ofthe creature; because, if he concurs to a sinful action, he
concurs to the sin also: not understanding how there can be a dis-
tinction between the act, and the sinfulness or viciousness of it; and
how God can concur to a natural action, without bein stained by
tligt moral evil which cleaves to it. For the understanding of this,
o erve,
1. There is a concurrence of God to all the acts of the creature
sécts xvii. 28); “in him we live, and move, and have our being.”
e depend ugon God in our acting as well as in our being: there is
as muc an e cacy of God in our motion as in our production; as
none have life without his power in producing it, so none have any
operation without his provi ence concurring with it. In him, or by
him, that is, by his virtue preserving and governing our motions, as
well as by his power bringing us into being. Hence man is corn-
pared to an axe   x. 15), an instrument that hath no action, with-
out the co-operation of a superior agent handling it: and the actions
of the second causes are ascribed to God; the grass, that is, the pro-
duct of the sun, rain, and earth, he is said to make to grow upon the
mountains (Ps. cxlvii. 8); and the skin and flesh, whic is by natural
generation, he is said to clothe us with (J ob x. 5), in regard of his
co-working with second causes, according to their natures. As
nothing can exist, so nothing can operate without him; let his con-
currence be removed, and the being and action ofthe creature cease;
remove the sun nom the horizon, or a candle from a room, and the
light which flowed from either of them ceaseth. Without God’s
preserving and concurring power, the course of nature would sink,
and the creation be in vain. All created things depend upon God
as agents, as well as beings, and are subordinate to-him in a way of
action, as well as in a way of existing." If God suspend his inHu-
ence hom their action, they would cease to act, as the fire did from
I But of the wisdom of God in the permitting sin in order to redemption, I have hair
died in the attribute of “ Wisdum." ' Suarez, Metaph. Part L p. 551

