on THE Honmnss or Gon. 157
burning the three children, as well as if God suspend his influence
from their being, they would cease to be. God supports the nature
whereby actions are wrought, the mind where actions are consulted,
and the will where actions are determined, and the motive-power
whereby actions are produced. The mind could not contrive, nor
the hand act, a wickedness, if God did not support the power of the
one in designing, and the strength of the other in executing a wicked
intention. Every fhculty in its being, and ever faculty in its mo-
tion, hath a dependence upon the in uence of (god. To make the
creature independent upon God in anything which speaks perfection,
as action considered as action is, is to make the creature a soverei
being. Indeed, we cannot imagine the concurrence of 'God to thi;
good actions of men since the fall, without granting a concurrence
of God to evil actions; because there is no action so purely good but
hath a mixture of evil in it, though it takes its denomination of good
from the better part (Eccles. vii. 20), “There is no man that doth
good, and sins not.”
2. Though the natural virtue of doing a sinful action be from God,
and sup rted by him, yet this doth not blemish the holiness of
God; while God concurs with them in the act, he instils no evil into
men.
(1.) No act, in regard of the substance of it, is evil. Most of the
actions of our faculties, as they are actions, might have been in the
state of innocency. Eating is an act Adam would have used if he
had stood irm, but not eating to excess. Worship was an act that
should have been performed to God in innocence, but not hypocriti-
cally. Every action is good by a physical goodness, as it is an act of
the mind or and, whic have a natural goodness b creation; but
every action is not morally good: the ph sical goodyness of the ac-
tion depends on God, the moral evil on the creature. There is no
action, as a corporeal action, is prohibited by the law of God; but
as it springs from an evil disposition, and is tainted bg' a venomous
temper of mind.° ' There is no action so bad, as atten ed with such
objects and circumstances; but if the objects and circumstances
were changed, might be a brave and commendable action: so that
the moral goodness or badness of an act is not to be esteemed from
the substance of the act, which hath always a physical goodness;
but from the objects, circumstances, and constitution of the mind in
the doing of it. Worship is an act good in itself; but the worship
of an image is bad in regard of the object. Were that act of wor-
shi directed to God that is aid to a statue, and offered up to him
with a sincere frame of ming, it would be morally ood. The act,
in regard of its substance, is the same in both, and considered as
separated from the object to which the worship is directed, hath tho
same real goodness in regard of the substance ; but when you con-
sider this action in relation to the different objects, the one hath a
moral goodness, and the other a moral evil. So in speaking: speak-
in bein a motion of the tongue in the forming of words, is an ex-
cellencylelongin to a reasonable creature; an endowment bestow-
sd, continued, and supported by God. Now, if the same tongue
° Amyrald. de Libero arbit. pp. 98, 99.

