158 cinmrocx ON nm xrrnmurss. /
forms words whereby it curseth God this minute, and forms words
whereby it blesses and praises God the next minute, the faculty of
speaking is the same, the motion of the tongue is the same in pro-
nouncing the name of God either in a way of cursing or bhming
(James   9, 10}; it is the “same mouth that blesseth and curseth ;
and the motion of it is naturally good in regard of the substance of
the act in both; it is the use of an excellent wer God hath given,
and which God preserves, in the use of it. gut the estimation of
the moral goodness or evil is not from the act itself; but from the
disposition of the mind. Once more: killing, as an act is good;
nor is it unlawful as an act; for if so, God would never have com~
manded his people Israel to wage any war, and justice could not be
done upon malefactors by the magistrate. A man were bound to
sacrifice his life to the fmuy of an invader, rather than secure it by
:lisplatching that of an enemy; but killing an innocent, or killin
wit out authority, or out of revenge, is bad. It is not the materij
part of the act, but the object, manner, and circumstance, that makes
it good or evil. It is no blemish to God’s holiness to concur to the
substance of an action, without having any hand in the immorality
of it; because, whatsoever is real in the substance of the action
might be done without evil. It is not evil as it is an act, as it is a
motion of the tongue or hand, for then every motion of the tongue
or hand would be evil.
(2.) Hence it follows, that an act, as an act, is one thing, and the
viciousness another. The action is the eiiicacy of the faculty, ex-
tending itself to some outward object; but the sinfulness of an act
consists in a privation of that comeliness and righteousness which
ought to be in an action; in a want of couformit of the act with
the law of God, either written in nature, or revealed in the W'ord.P
Now, the sinfulness of an action is not the act itself, but is considered
in it as it is related to the law, and is a deviation from it; and so it
is something cleavin to the action, and therefore to be distin uished
from the act itself] wliich is the subjectof the sinfulness. Wghen we
say such an action is sinful, the action is the subject, and the sinful-
ness of the action is that which adheres to-it. The action is not the
sinfulness, nor the sinfulness the action; they are distinguished as
the member, and a disease in the member, the arm and the palsy in
it: the arm is not the palsy, nor is the pals_ the arm; but the palsy
is a disease that cleaves to the arm: so sinfiilness is a deformity that
cleaves to an action. The evil of an action is not the e&`ect of an
action, nor attends it as it is an action, but as it is an action so circum-
stantiated, and conversant about this or that object; for the same
action done by two several persons, may be good in one, and bad in
the other; as when two judges are in joint commimion for the trial
of a malefactor, both u on the appearance of his guilt condemn
him. This action in both, considered as an action, is good; for it is
an adj udging a man to death, whose crime deserves such a plunish-
ment. But this same act, which is but one joint act of bot , may
be morally good in one judge, and morally evil in the other: morally
good in him that condemns him out of an imbiassed consideration
I Amyrald, pp. 821. 882

