ON THE nommass or con. 159
of the demerit of his fact, obedience to the law, and cc nscious of the
duty of his place; and morall evil in the other, who hath no
respect to those considerations, gut joins in the act of condemnation,
principally mowed by some private animosity against the prisoner,
and desire of revenge for some injury he hath really received, or
imagines that he hath received from him. The act in itself is the
same materiall in both; but in one it is an act of justiw, and in the
other an act oi? murder, as it respects the principles and motives of it
in the two judges; take awa ' the res ect of private revenge, and
the action in the ill judge had been m-1 laudable as the action of the
other. The substance of an act, and the sinfulness of an act, are
separable and distinguishable; and God may concur with the sub-
stance of an act, without concurring with the sinfulness of the act:
asthe good judge, that condemned the prisoner out of conscience,
concurred with the evil judge, who condemned the prisoner out of ri-
vate revenge; not in the principle and motive of condemnation, but
in the material part of condemnation. So 'Gad assists in that action
of a man wherein sin is placed, but not in that which is the formal
reason of sin, which is a privation of some perfection the action
ou ht morally to have.
5) It will appear further in this, that hence it follows that the
action, and the viciousness of the action, may have two distinct
causes. That may be a cause of the one that is not the cause of the
other, and hath no hand in the producing of it. God concurs to the
act of the mind as it counsels, and to the external action upon that
counsel, as he preserves the faculty, and gives strength to the mind
to consult, and the other parts to execute; yet he is not in the least
tainted with the viciousness of the action. Though the action be
from God as a concurrent cause, yet the ill quality of the action is
solely from the creature with whom God conclus. The sun and the
earth concur to the production of all the plants that are formed in
the womb of the one, and inidwifed by the other. The sun dis-
tributes heat, and the earth communicates sap; it is the same heat
dispersed by the one, and the same juice bestowed by the other: it
hat not a sweet juice for one, and a sour juice for another. This gen-
eral inilux of the sun and earth is not the immediate cause that one
plant is (poisonous, and another wholesome; but the sap of' the earth
I8 turne by the nature and quality of each plant: if t ere were not
such an influx of the sun and earth, no plant could exert that
poison which is in its nature; but yet the sun and earth are not the
cause of that poison which is in the nature of the plant. If God
did not concur to the motions of men, there could be no sinful ac-
tion, because there could be no action at all; yet this concurrence is
not the cause of that venom that is in the action, which ariseth from
the corrupt nature of the creature, no more than the sun and earth
are the cause of the poison of the lant, which is purely the effect
of its own nature upon that general influx of the sun and earth.
The influence of God picrccth through all subjects; but the action
91' man done by that influence is vitiated according to the nature of
its own corruption. As the sun ually shines through_ all the
quarrels in the window; if the glasse(l>e bright and clear, there is a

