16| cmnuocx ON 'mn ArramU'rrs.
punsplendor; if it be red or green, the splendor is from the sun;
ut the discoloring of that li t upon the wall, is from the uali
of the glass. But to be yet plainer: the soul is the im 0? G02
and by the acts of the soul, we may come to the knowl:§;e of the
acts of God; the soul gives motion to the body and every member
of it, and no member could move without a concurrent virtue of the
soul; if a member be paralytic or gouty, whatsoever motion that
gouty member hath, is derived to it from the soul; but the goutiness
of the member was not the act of the soul, but the fruit of ill hu-
mors in the body; the lameness of the member, and the motion of
the member, have two distinct causes; the motion is from one cause,
and ill motion from another.°1 As the member could not move
irregularly without some ill humor or cause of that distemper, so it
could not move at all without the activity of the soul: so, though
God concur to the act of understanding, willing, and execution, why
can he not be as free from the irregularity in al those, as the soul is
free from the irregularity of the motion of the body, while it is the
cause of the motion itself? There are two illustrations generally
used in this case, that are not unfit; the motion of the pen in writ-
ing is from the hand that holds it, but the blurs by the pen are From
some fault in the pen itself: and the music of the instrument is from
the hand that touches it, but the jarring from the faultiness of the
strings; both are the causes of the motion of the pen and strings,
but not the blurs or jarrings.
' (4). It is very congruous to the wisdom of God, to move his crea-
tures according to t eir particular natures; but this motion makes
him not the cause of sin. Had our innocent nature continued, God
had moved us according to that innocent nature; but when the
state was changed for a corrupt one, God must either forbear all
concourse, and so annihilate t e world, or move us according to
that nature he Ends in us. If he had overthrown the world upon
the entrance of sin, and created another u n the same terms, sin
might have as soon defaced his second worlgfas it-did the first; and
then it would follow, that God would have been alway building and
demolishing. It was not fit for God to cease from acting as a wise
governor o his creature, because man did cease from his loyalty as
a subject. Is it not more agreeable to God’s wisdom as a governor,
to concur with his creature according to his nature, than to deny
his concurrence upon every evil determination of the creature Y
God concurred with Adam’s mutable nature in his first act of sin;
he concurred to the act, and left him to his mutability. If Adam
had put out his hand to eat of an other unforbidden fruit, God would
have supported his natural facufty then, and concurred with him in
his motion. When Adam would ut out his hand to take the
forbidden fruit, God concurred to tliitt natural action, but leit him
to the choice of the object, and to the use of his mutable nature:
and when man became apostate, God concurs with him according
to that condition wherein he found him, and cannot move him
otherwise, unless he should alter that nature man had contracted.
God moving the creature as he found-him, is no cause of the ill
‘ ‘1Zmch. Tom. II. lib. iii. cap. 4, quest. iv. p. 226.

