ON THE HoL1Nr:ss or Gen. 161
motion of the creature: as when a wheel is broken the space of a
foot, it cannot but move ill in that part till it be mended. He that
moves it, uses the same motion (as it is his act) which he would
have done had the wheel been sound; the motion is good in the
mover, but bad in the sub`ect: it is not the fault of him that moves
it, but the fault of' that wlieel that is moved, whose breaches came
by some other cause. A man doth not use to lay aside his watch
for some irre arity, as long as it is capable of motion, but winds
it up: why s ould God cease from concurring with his creature in
its vital operations and other actions of his will, because there was
a flaw contracted in that nature, that came ri ht and true out of his
hand? And as he that winds up his disorgered watch, is in the
same manner the cause of its motion then, as he was when it was
regular, yet, by that act of his, he is not the cause of the false
motion of it. but that is from the deficiency of some part of the watch
itself: so, though God concurs to that action of the creature, whereby
the wickedness of the heart is drawn out, yet is not God therefore
as unholy as the heart.
(5.) God hath one end in his concurrence, and man another in
his action: so that there is a righteous, and often a gracious end in
God, when there is a base and unworthy end in man. God concurs
to the substance of the act; man produeeth the circumstance of the
act, whereby it is evil. God orders both the action wherein he con-
curs, and the sinfulness over which he presides, as a governor, to
his own ends. In Joseph’s ease, man was sinful, and God merciful ;
his brethren acted “ envy,” and God designed “mere ” (Gen. xlv.
4, 5). They would be rid of him as an eye-sore, and (ilod concurred
with their action to make him their preserver (Gen. l. 20), “Ye
thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good.” God con-
curred to Judas his action of betraying our Saviour; he supported
his nature while he contracted with the priests, and supported his
members while he was their guide to apprehend him; (1od`s end
was the manifestation of his choicest love to man, and Judas’ end
was the gratification of his own covetousness. The Assyrian did a
divine work against Jerusalem, but not with a Divine end (Isa. x.
5-T). He had a mind to enlarge his empire, enrich his coffers
with the spoil, and gain the title of a conqueror; he is desirous to
ii vade his neighbors, and God employs him to punish his rebels;
nut he means not so, nor doth his heart think so; he intended not
asGod intended. The axe doth not think what the carpenter in-
tends to do with it. But God used the rapine of ambitious nature
as an instrument of his justice; as the exposing malefactors to wild
beasts was an ancient punishment, whereby the magistrates intended
the execution of justice, and to that purpose used the natural
Iierceness of the beasts to an end different from what those ravaging
creatures aimed at. God concurred with Satan in spoiling Job of
l-11S goods, and scarifying his bod ; God gave Satan licence to do
lt, and Job acknowledges it to he God’s act (Job i. 12-21); but
their ends were different; God concurred with Satan for the clearing
the integrity of his servant, when Satan aimed at nothing but the
provoking him to curse his Creator. The physician applies leeches
vol.. u -1.1
l

