162 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRII JTES.
to suck the superfluous blood, but the leeches suck to glut them-
selves, Without any regard to the intention of the physician, and the
welfare of the patient. In the same act where men intend to hurt,
God intends -to correct; so that his concurrence is in a holy manner,
while men commit unrighteous actions. A judge commands the
executioner to execute the sentence of death, which he hath justly
pronounced against a malefactor, and admonisheth him to do it out
of love to justice; the executioner hath the authority of the judge
for his commission, and the protection of the judge for his security;
the judge stands by to countenance and secure him in the doin of
it; but if the executioner hath not the same intention as the judge,
mb. a love to justice in the performance of his oflice, but a private
hatred to the offender, the judge, thou h he commanded the fact of
the executioner, yet did not command ghis error of his in it; and
though he rotects him in the fact, yet he owns not this corrupt dis-
position in Iiim in the doing what was enjoined him, as any act of
is own.
To conclude this. Since the creature cannot act without God,
cannot lift up a hand, or move his tongue, without God’s preservi
and upholding the faculty, and preserving the power of action, :Lund
preserving every member of the body in its actual motion, and in
every circumstance of its motion, we must necessarily suppose God
to have such a way of concurrence as doth not intrench upon his
holiness. We must not equal the creatine to God, by denying his
dependence on him; nor must we imagine such a concurrence to
the sinfulness of an act, as stains the Divine purity, which is, I
think, suiiicientl salved by distinguishing the matter of the act
from the evil adhering to it; for since all evil is founded in some
good, the evil is distinguishable from the good, and the deformity
of the action from the action itself; which, as it is a created act,
hath a dependence on the will and influence of God; and as it is a
sinful act, is the product of the will of the creature.
Prop. VI. The holiness of God is not blemished by proposing
objects to a man, which he makes use of to sin. There is no object
proposed to man, but is directed by the providence of God, which
mfluenceth all the motions in the world; and there is no object pro-
posed to man, but his active nature may, according to the goodness
or badness of his disposition, make a good or an ill use of That
two men, one of a charitable, the other of a hard-hearted disposition,
meet with an indigent and necessitous object, is from the rovidence
of God; yet this indigent (person is relieved by the one, and) neglected
b the other. There coul be no action in the world, but about some
object; there could be no object offered to us but b Divine Provi-
dence; the active nature of man would be in vain,  there were not
objects about which it might be exercised. Nothing could resent
itself to man as an object, either to excite his grace, or awagen his
corru tion, but by the conduct of the Governor of the world. That
David) should walk upon the battlements of his Jalace, and Bath-
sheba be in the bath at the same time, was from the Divine Provi-
dence which orders all the affairs of the world (2 Sam. xi. 7); and sn
some understand (Jer. vi. 21): “Thus saith the Lord, I will lay

