os 'rss nonnvnss or con. 163
stumbling-blocks before this peo le, and the fathers and sons together
shall fall upon them.” Since ti-hey have offered sacrifices without
those due qualifications in their hearts, which were necessary to ren-
der them acceptable to me, I will lay in their way such objects, which
their corruption will use ill to their farther sin and ruin; so (Ps. cv.
25), “He turned their heart to hate his peoplef’ that is, by the multi-
plying his people, he glave occasion to t e gyptians of hating them,
instead of caressing t em, as they had formerly done. But God’s
holiness is not blemished by this; for,
1. This proréosing or presenting of objects invades not the liberty
of any man. he tree of the knowledge of good and evil, set in the
midst of the garden of Eden, had no violent influence on man to
force hun _to eat of it; his hberty to eat of it, or not, was reseryed
entire to himself ; no such charge can be brought against any object
whatsoever. If a man meet accidentally at a table with meat that is
grateful to his palate, but hm-tful to the present temper of his body,
oth the presenting this sort of food to im strip him of his liberty
to decline it, as wel as to feed of it? Can the food have an internal
influence upon his will, and lay the freedom of it asleep whether he
will or no? Is there any charm in that, more than in other sorts of
diet? _No; but it is the habit of love which he hath to that particu-
lar dish, the curiosity of his fancy, and the strength of his own ap e-
tite, whereby he is brought into a kind of slavery to that particular
meat, and not anything in the food itself When` the word is pro-
posed to two persons, it is embraced by the one, rejected by the
other; is it from the word itself, which is the object, t at these two
persons perform different acts? The object is the same to both, but
the manner of acting about the object is not the same; is there any
invasion of their liberty by it? Is the one forced by the word to
receive it, and the other forced by the word to reject it? Two such
contrary effects cannot proceed from one and the same cause; out-
ward things have only an objective influence, not an inward; if the
mere proposal of things did suspend or strike down the liberty of
man, no angels in heaven, no man upon earth, no, not our Saviour
himself; could do anything freely, but by force; objects that are ill
used are of God’s creation, and though they have allurements in
them, yet they have no compulsive power over the will! The_fruit
of the tree of knowledge of good and evil was pleasing to the sight;
it had a quality to allure; there had not else needed a prohibition to
bar the eating of it; but it could not have so much power to allure,
as the Divine threatening to deter.
2. The objects are good in themselves, but the ill use of them is
from man’s corruption. Bathsheba was, b God’s providence, pre-
sented to Da.vid’s sight, but it was David’s dyisposition moved him to
so evil an act; what if God knew that he would use that object ill?
yet he knew he had given him a wer to refrain from any ill use
of it; the objects are innocent, liiiit our corruption poisons them.
The same object hath been used b one to holy purposes and holy
im§;c;yernents, that hath been usceirby another to sinful ends; when
a c 'table object is presented to a good man, and a cruel man, one
' Amyral. de Lihero nrbit. p. 224.

