164 CHARNOCK ON mn Arrmnurss.
relieves him, the other reviles him; the object was rather an occasion
to draw out the charity of one, as well as the other; but the refusing
go refilchdogxt a helpinig hland, was not fiom tihe person in calamity,
utt e `positiono t e refuser to w om e was presented- itis
not h'om the nature of the ob`ect that men do ood or evil but’ from
J S ,
the disposition of the person; what is good in itself, is made bad by
our corruption. As t e same meat which nourishes and strengthens
ahsound constitution,fcherisheth th;   of :another that eats at
t e same table, not rom any unw o esome qua ity in the food but
the vicious quality of the humors lodging in the stomach, which ,turn
the diet into fuel for themselves, which in its own nature was apt to
engender a wholesome juice. Some are perfected by the same things
vghereby others are arauined. Riches are used by some, not only for
t eir own but the vantage of others in the world' by others onl
for themselves, and scarcely so much as their necessities require. g
this the fault of theiwpalth, or the disgosiiiions of the persons, who
are covetous instea o bein generous t is a calumn therefore,
EOD God to charge him with the sin of man upon this account..
e_rain that drops from the clouds upon the plants is sweet in
itself, but when it moistens the root of any venomous plant, it is
tfqvllned into the juice of the plant, and becomes venomous with it.
e miracles that our Saviour wrought were a plauded- by some,
and envied by) the Pharisees; the sin ardse not gem the nature of
the miracles, ut the malice of theipesipirits. The miracles were fitter
in their own nature to have indu them to an adoration of our
Saviour, than to excite so vile a “passion against one that had so
many marks from heaven to dign` y him, an roclaim him worthy
of their respect. The person of Christ was an <§>ject prpfposcd to the
Jews; some worship him, others condemn and cruc` y him, and
gccprding to thei1l;1 several vices andh bgse ends they; usph this object.
u as to content 's covetousncss t e harisees to g ut eir revenge
Pilate for his ambition, to preserve himself in his government, and
avoid the articles the (people might charge him with of countenancin
an enemy to Caesar. od at that time put into their minds a rational
and true ‘proposition which they app y to ill purposes! (laiaphas
said, that it was exped1ent,for one man to die for t e people,_ W ich
he spake not of himself (John _XL 50, 51% God put it into his
mind; but he might have apphed it better t an he did, and consid-
ired, tgicélégih) térirrgzxim viasthconplpendable, whlpther it  
eap 1 orwe er erewassuc anecessiy a e
must iclie, or the nation be destroyed by the Romans. The maxim
was sound and holy, decreed by_ God; but what an_   use did the
high-priest make of it to %ut Chnst to death as a seditious person, to
save the nation from the oman furyl
3. Since the natural corruption of men will use such objects ill,
may not God, without tainting himself, present such objects to them
in subserviency   his gracious decrees Whatsoever God should
present to men in that state, they would make an ill use of; hath
not God, then, the sovereign prerogative to present what he pleases,
md suppress others? To offer that to them which may serve his
‘ Amyrald, Ironic- p. 887.

