L66 cnumocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
l
innocence incredible;_he could not reasona.bly have been proposed
as an object of faith. What, to believe in one that was struck dead
by a hand from heaven? The pro agation ofthe doctrine of redemp-
tion had wanted a foundation; and tho h God might have raised
him again, the certainty of his death hadudieen as uestionable as his
innocence in dying, had he not been raised. Butfilod orders every-
thing so as to answer his own most wise and holy ends, and maintain
his truth, and the fuldlling the predictions of the minutest concerns
about them, and all this by presenting occasions innocent in -them-
selves, which the corruptions of the Jews took hold o£ and whereby
God, unknown to them, brought about his own decrees: and may
not this be conceived without any taint upon God’s holiness? for
when there are seeds of all sin in man7s nature, why may not God
hinder the sprouting up of this or that kind of seed, and leave liberty
to the growthof the other, and shut up other ways of sinning, and
restrain men from them, and let them loose -to that temptation which
he intends to serve himself of, hiding from them those objects which
were not so serviceable to his purpose, wherein they would have
sinned, and offer others, which he knew their corruption would use
ill, and were serviceable to his ends; since the depravation of their
natures would necessarily hurry them to evil without restrainin
Erase, as a scale will necessarily rise up when the weight in it, which
ept it down, is taken away?
P1-qi. VH. The holiness of God is not blemished by withdrawing
his grace from a sinful creature, whereby he falls into more sin.
That God withdraws his grace from men, and ives them up some-
times to the fury of their lusts, is as clear in gbripture-as anything
(Deut. xxix. 4): “Yet the Lord hath not given ou a heart to per-
ceive, and eyes to see, and ears to hear,’L&c. Jliidas was delivered
to Satan after the so , and put into his power, for despising former
admonitions. He ogen leaves the reins to the devil, that he may
use what eiiicacy he can in those that have offended the Majesty of
God; he withholds further influence  of ce, or withdraws what
before he had granted them. Thus he witiilield that grace from the
sons of Eli, that mi ht have made their father’s pious admonitions
effectual to them (I iam.   25): “They hearkened not to the voice
of their father, because the Lord would slay them.” He gave grace
to Eli to reprove them, and withheld that grace from them, which
might have enabled them against their natural corruption and ob-
stinac to receive that reproofl But the holiness of God is not blem-
ished by this.
1. Because the act of God in this is only negative." Thus God is
said to “harden” men: not by positive hardening, or working any-
thing in the creature, but by not working, not softening, leavin a
man to the hardness of his own heart, whereby it is unavoidablegby
the depravation of ma.n’s nature, and the fury of his passions, but
that he should be further hardened, and “increase unto more un-
goclliness,” as the expression is (2 Tim.   19). As a man is said to
_'ve another his life, when he doth not takeit away when it lay at
Es mercy; so God is said to “harden” a man, when he doth vt.
' Testard, de Nntur, et-Grat. Thee. 150, llil., Amy on Divers Texts, p- 811

