I
ON rm: HOLINESS or con. 167
I
molliq him when it was in his power, and inwardly uicken him
with t at grace whereby he might infallibly avoid any (iurther pro-
vokinv of him. God is said to harden men when he removes not
from ihem the incentives to sin, curbs not those principles which
are ready to comply with those incentives, withdraws the common
asristances of his grace, concurs not with counsels and admonitions
to make them eifectual; flasheth not in the convincing light which
he darted upon them before. If hardness follows upon Grod’s with~
holding his sotiening grace, it is not b any positive act of God, but
fiom tue natural hardness of man. If? you put fire near to wax or
rosin, both will melt; but when that fire is removed, they return to
their natural quality of hardness and brittleness; the positive act of
the fire is to malt and soften, and the softness of the rosin is to be
ascribed to that; but the hardness is from the rosin itself, wherein
the tire hath no influence, but only a ne tive act by a removal of
it: so, when God hardens a man, he onli; leaves him to that stony
heart which he derived from Adam, and brought with him into the
world. All men’s understandings being blinded, and their wills
perverted in Adam, God’s withdrawing his grace is but a leaving
them to their natural pmvit , which is the cause of their further sin-
ning, and not God`s removalyof that special light he before afforded
them, or restraint he held over them. As when God withdraws his
preserving power from the creature, he is not the etlicient, but de-
Iicient cause of the creature’s destruction ; so, in this case, God only
ceaseth to bind and dam up that sin which else would break out.
2. The whole positive cause of his hardness is from man’s corrup-
tion. God infuseth not any sin into his creatures, but forbears to
infuse his grace, and restrain their lusts, which, upon the removal of
his grace, work impetuously: God only gives them u to that which
he knows will work strongly in their hearts. And: therefore, the
apostle wipes off from God any positive act in that uncleanness the
heathens were given up to (Rom. i. 24, “ Wherefore God gave them
up _to uucleanness, through the lusts of their own hearts.” And, ver.
26, God gave them up to “vile a&`ections;” but they were their own
affections, none of God’s inspiring,) b adding, “t rough the lusts
of their own hearts." God’s giving tliiem up was the logical cause,
or a cause by way of argument; their own lusts were the true and
natural cause; their own they were, before they were given up to
them, and belonging to none, as the author, but themselves, after
they were given up to them. The lust in the heart, and the temp-
tation without, easily close and mix interests with one another: as
the tire in a coal pit will with the fuel, if the streams derived into it
for the quenching it be dammed up: the natural passions will run
toatemptation, as the waters of a river tumble towards the sea.
When a man that hath bridled in a high-mettled horse from running
out, gives him the reins; or a huntsman takes off the string that
held the dog, and lets him run after the hare,-are they the imme-
diate cause of the motion of the one, or the other Y-no, but the
mettle and strength of the horse, and the natural inclination of the
hound, both which are left~to their own motions to pursue their own
natural instincts. Man doth as naturally tend to sin as a stone tn

