\
168 cruimocx, oN 'run ATTRIBUTES.
the centre, or as a weighty thing inclines to a _motion to the earth.
it is from the propension of man s nature that he “drinks up iniquity
like water :” and God doth no more when he leaves a man to sin, by
taking away the hedge which stop ed him, but leave him to his na-
tural inclination. As a man that iireaks up a dam he hath placed,
leaves the stream to run in their natural channel; or one that takes
away a prop from a stone to let it fall, leaves it only to that nature
which inclines it to a descent; both have their motion from their
own nature, and man is sin from his own corruption. The with-
drawing the sunbeams is not the cause of darkness, but the shadi-
ness of the earth; nor is the departure of the sun the cause of
winter, but the coldness of the air and earth, which was tempered
and beaten back into the bowels of the earth by the vigor of
the sun, upon whose departure they return to their natural state:
the sun only leaves the earth an air as it found them at the
beginning of the spring or the beinning of the day.= If God
do not give a man grace to melt im, yet he cannot be said to
communicate to him that nature which hardens him, which man
hath from himself As God was not the cause of the first sin of
Adam, which was the root of all other, so he is not the cause
of the following sins, which, as branches, spring from that root;
man’s free-will was the cause of the first sin, and the corruption
of his nature by it the cause of all succeeding sins. God doth
not immediately harden any man, but dotliapropose those things,
from whence the natural vice of man es an occasion to
strengthen and nourish itself Hence, God is said to “harden
Pharaoh’s heart” (Exod. vii. 13), by concurring with the magicians
in turning their rods into serpents, which stiffened his heart
against Moses, conceiving him by reason of that, to have no more
power than other men, and was an occasion of his father harden-
lng: and Pharaoh is said to “harden himself” (Exod.   32);
that is, in regard of his own natural passion.
3. God is holy and righteous, because he doth not withdraw from
man, till man deserts him. To sady, that God withdrew that grace
from Adam, which he had afforde him in creation, or anything that
was due to him, till he had abused the gifts of God, and tumed them
tn an end contrary to that of creation, would be a reflection upon
the Divine holiness. Godwas first deserted by man before man
was deserted by God; and man doth first contemn and abuse the
common grace of God, and those relics of natural light, that “ en-
lighten ever man that comes into the world” (John i. 9); before
God leaves him to the hurry of his own passions. Ephraim was
first joined to idols, before God ronounced the fatal sentence, “ Let
him alone” (Hos. iv. 17): and the heathens 'dist changed the glory
of the incorruptiblc God, before God withdrew his common grace
hom the corrupted creature (Rom. i. 23, 24); and they first “served
the creature more than the Creator," before the Creator gave them
up to the slavish chains of their vile affections (ver. 25, 26). Israel
drst cast oif God before God cast off them; but then “ he gave them
up to their own hearts’ lusts, and they walked in their own counsels”
I Amyruld, dc Prodcst. p. 107.

