ON 'rrm HOLINESS or con. 169
(Ps. lxxxi. 11, 12). Since sin entered into the world by the fall of
Adam, and the blood of' all his posteri;y was tainted, man cannot do
anything that is formally good; not or want of faculties, but for
the want of a righteous habit in those faculties, especially in the
will; et God discovers himself to man in the works of his hands;
he hath left in him footste s of natural reason; he doth attend him
with common motions of iiis Spirit; corrects him for his faults with
gentle chastisements. He is near unto all in some kind_of instruc-
tions: he puts many times providential bars in their way of sinning;
but when they will rush into it as the horse into the'battle, when
they will rebel against the light, God doth often leave them to their
own course, sentence him that is “ filthy to be filthy still" (Rev. xxii.
11), which is a righteous act of God, as he is rector and governor of
the world. Man’s not receiving, or not improving what God gives,
is the cause of God’s not giving further, or taking away his own,
which before he had bestowed; this is so far from being repugnant
to the holiness and righteousness of God, that it is rather a commen-
dable act of his holiness and righteousness, asthe rector of the world,
not to let those gifts continue in the hand of a, man who abuses them
contrary to his glory. Who will blame a father, that, after all the
good counsels he hath given to his son to reclaim him, all the correc-
tions he hath inflicted on him for his irregular practice, leaves him
to his own courses, and withdraws those assistances which he scotfed
at, and turned the deaf ear unto? Or, who will blame the physician
for deserting the patient, who rejects his counsel, will not follow his
prescriptions, but dasheth his phgfsic against the wall? No man
will blame him, no man will say t at he is the cause of the patient’s
death, but the true cause is the fury of the distemper, and the obsti-
nacy of the diseased person, to which the physician left him. And
who can justly blame God in this case, w o yet never denied sup-
plies of grace to any that sincerely sought it at his hands; and what
man is there that lies under a hardness,” but first was guilty of very
provoking sins? What unholiness is it to deprive men of those as-
sistances, because of their sin, and afterwards to direct those counsels
and practices of theirs, which he hath justly given them up unto, to
serve the ends of his own glory in his own methods?
4. Which will a pear tiirther by considering, that God is not
obliged to continue liis grace to them. It was at his liberty whether
he could give any renewing grace to Adam after his tall, or to any
of his posterit : he was at his own liberty to withhold it or com-
municate it: lint, if he were under any obligation then, surely he
must be under less now, since the multiplication of sin by his crea-
tures: but, if the obligation were none just after the fall, there is no
pretence now to fasten any such obligation on God. That God had
no obligation at first, hath been spoken to before ; he is less obliged
to continue his grace after a repeated refusal, and a peremptory abuse,
than he was bound to proifer it after the first apostasy. God cannot
be changed with unholiness in withdrawing his grace after we have
receive it, unless we can make it appear that his grace was a thin
due to us, as we are his creatures, an as he is governor of the work?
What prince looks upon himself as obliged to reside in any particu-

