170 CHARNOCK ON THE A'l'.l'B,I.BUTES.
'lar place of his kingdom? But suppose he be bound to inhabit in
one particular city, yet after the city rebels against him, is he bound
to continue his court there, spend his revenue among rebels, endanger
his own honor and security, enlarge their charter, or maintain their
ancient privileges? Is it not most just and righteous for him to
withdraw himself, and leave them to their own tumultuousness and
sedition, whereby they should eat the fruit of their own doings? If
there be an obligation on God as a governor, it would rather lie on
the side of justice to leave man to the power of the devil whom he
courted, and’ the prevalency of those lusts he hath so often caressed;
and wrap up in a cloud all his common illuminations, and leave him
destitute of all common workings of his Spirit.
Prqz. VIII. God’s holiness is not blemished by his commanding
those things sometimes which seem to be against nature, or thwart
some other of his precepts; as when God commanded Abraham with
his own hand to sacrifice his son (Gen. xxii. 2), there was nothing
of unrighteousness in it. God hath a sovereign dominion over the
lives and beings of his creatures, whereby as he creates one day, he
might annihilate the next; and by the same right that he might de-
mand the life of Isaac, as being is creature, he might demand the
obedience of Abraham, in a ready ret\u'n of that to him, which ha
had so long enjoyed by his rant. It is true, killing is unjust when
it is done without cause, auf by a private authorit ; but the author-
ity of God surmounts all private and public autliority whatsoever.
Our lives are due to him when he calls for them; and the are more
than once forfeit to him b reason of transgression. But, howsoever
the case is, God wmmandld him to do it for the trial of his grace,
but suffered him not to do it in favor to his read obedience; but
had Isaac been actually slain and offered, how had' it been unright-
eous in God, who enacts laws for the regulation of his creature, ut
never intended them to the rejudice of the rights of his severe' nty ?
Another case is that of thegsraelities borrowmg jewels of the )§gyp-
tians, b the order of God (Exod. xi. 2, 3 ; xii. 36g Is not (rod
Lord ofymen‘s goods, as well as their lives? What ave any, the
have not received? and that not as proprietors independent on
but his stewards; and may not he demand a portion of his stew
to bestow upon his favorite? He that had power to dispose of the
Egyptians’ (goods, had power to order the Israelites to ask them.
Besides, Go acted the part of a just judge in ordering them their
wages for their service in this method, and making their task-masters
give them some recompense for their unjust oppression so many
years; it was a command from God, there ore, rat er for the preser-
vation of justice (the basis of all those laws which link uman
society), than any infringement of it. It was a material recompense
in part, though not a formal one in the intention of the Egyptians;
it was but in part a. recompense; it must needs come short of the
damage the poor ca tives had sustained by the tyranny of their
masters, who had en5aved them contrary to the rules of hospitality;
and could not make amends for the lives of the poor infants of Israel,
whom they had drowned in the river. He that might for the unjust
oppression of his people have taken away all their lives, _destroyed

