ON 'rua nonmass or con. 171
the whole nation, and put the Israelites into the possession of their
lands, could, without any unrighteousness, dispose of part of their
goods; and it was rather an act of clemency to leave them some
part, who had doubly forfeited all. Again, the Egyptians were as
ready to lend by God’s influence, as the Israelites were to ask by
Gods order: and though it was a loan, God, as Sovereign of the
world, and Lord of the earth, and the fulness thereof, alienated the
property by asuming them to the use of the tabernacle, to which
service, most, if not all of them, were aherwards dedicated. God,
who is lawgiver, hath power to dispense with his own law, and make
use of his own goods, and dispose of them as he lpleases; it is no un-
holiness in God to dispose of that which he hat a right unto. In-
deed, God cannot command that which is in its own nature intrinsi-
sically evil ; as to command a rational creature not to love him, not
to worship him, to call God to witness to a lie; these are intrinsi-
cally evil; but for the disposing of the lives and goods of his crea~
tures, which they have from him in right, and not in absolute pro-
priety, is not evil in him, because there is no repugnancy in his own
nature to such acts, nor is it anything inconsistent with the natural
duty of a creature, and in such cases he may use what instruments
he please. The point was, that holiness is a glorious perfection of
the nature of God. We have showed the nature of this holiness in
God; what it is; and we have demonstrated it, and proved that
God is holy, and must needs be so; and also the purity of his nature
in all his acts about sin: let us now improve it by way of use.
IV. Is holiness a transcendent perfection belonging to the nature
of God? The first use shall be of instruction and information.
Inform. 1. How great and how frequent is the contempt of this
eminent rfection in the Deity I Since the fall, this attribute, which
renders (Iirbd most amiable in himself, renders him most hateful to
his apostate creature. It is impossible that he that loves iniquity,
can affect that which is irreconcileably contrary to the ini uity he
loves. Nothing so contrary to the sinfulness of man as the (holiness
of God, and nothing is thought of by the sinner with so much detes-
tation. How do men account that which is the most glorious rfec-
iinn of the Divinity, unworthy to be regarded as an accomplisliement
of their own souls! and when they are pressed to an imitation of it,
and a. detestation of what is contrary to it, have the same sentiment
intheir heart which the devil had in his langua e to Christ, Why
art thou come to torment us before our time? \§'hat'an enmity the
world naturally hath to this perfection, I think is visible in the prac-
tice of the heathen, who among all their heroes which they deified,
elevated none to that dignit among them for this or that moral vir-
tue that came nearest to it, hut for their valor or some usefulness in
the concerns of this life. Ailsculapius was deified for his skill in the
cure of diseases; Bacchus, for the use of the grape; Vulcan, for his
operations by fire; Hercules, for his destrpiying of tyrants and mon-
lters; but none for their mere virtue; as ' anything of purity were
unworthy their consideration in the frame of a Deity, when it is the
glory of all other erfections ; so essential it is, that when men reject
the imitation of   God regards it as a total rejection of himself,

