172 ciumrocx ON rss arramurrs.
though they own all the other attributes of his nature (Ps. lxxxi. ll):
“ Israel would none of me :” why? because “they walked not in his
ways” (ver. 13); those ways wherein the purity of the Divine nature
was most conspicuous; they would own him in his power, when they
stood in need ofa deliverance; they would own him in his mercy,
when they were plungled in distress; but' they would not imitate
him in his holiness. T is being the lustre of the Divine nature, the
contempt of it is an obscuring all his other perfections, and a dash-
ing a b ot upon his whole escutcheon. To own all the rest, and deny
him this, is to frame him as an unbeautifizl monster,--a deformed
power. Indeed, all sin is against this attribute; all sin aims in gen-
eral at the being of God, but in particular at the holiness of his Be»
ing. All sin is a. violence to this perfection ; there is not an iniquity
in the world, but directs its venomous sting against the Divine pu-
rity ; some sins are directed against his omniscience, as secret wick-
edne ; some against his providence, as distrust; some against his
mercy, as unbelief; some against his wisdom, as neglecting the
means instituted by him, censuring his ways and actings; some
against his power, as trusting in means more than in God, and the
immoderate fear of men more than of God; some against his truth,
as distrusting his promise, or not fearing his threatening; but all
agree together in their enmity against t is, which is the peculiar
g ory of the Deity: every one of t em is a receding from the Divine
image; and the blackness of every one is the deeper, by how much
the distance of it from the holiness of God is the greater. This con-
trariety to the holiness of God, is the cause of all the absolute athe-
ism   there be any such) in the world; what was the reason “the
fool ath said in his heart, There is no God,” but because the fool is
“ corrupt, and hath done abominable work” (Ps, xiv. 1)? If they
believe the bein of a. God, their own reason will enforce them to
imagine him hoIy; therefore, rather than fancy a holy God, they
Wo d fain fancy none at all.-In particular,
1. The holiness of God is injured, in unworthy re resentations of
God, and ima ' tions of him in o1u° own minds. 'Fha heathen fell
under this glghnd ascribed to their idols those vices which their
own sensuahi inclined them to, unworthy of a man, much more un#
worthy of a (god, that they might find a protection of their crimes in
the practice of their idols. But is this only the notion of the hea~
thens? may there not be many among us whose love to their lusts,
and desires of 'sinning without control, move them to slander God in
their thoughts, rather than reform their lives, and are ready to Hume,
by the wer of their imaginative faculty, a God, not only winkjng,
but smiliiig, at their impurities? I am sure God -charges the im-
piaeties of men upon this score, in that Psalm (l. 21) which seems to
a representation of the day of judgment, as some gather from ver.
6, when God sums up all to ether: “These things hast thou done,
and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an
one as thyscl(';" not a detester, but approver of thy crimes: and the
Psalmist seems to express God’s loat mg of sin in such a manner, as
intimat/es it to be contrary to the ideas and resemblances men make
of him in their minds (Ps. v. 4); “ For thou art not a God that hast

