_ ON 'mn noLn~rEss or con. 173
pleasure in wickedness;” as we say, in vindication of a man, he is
not such a. man as you imagine him to be; thou art not such a God
as the world commonly imagines thee to be, a God taking pleasure
in iniquity. It is too common for men to fancy God not as he is,
but as they would have him; strip him of his excellency for their
own security. As God made man after his image, man would dress
God after his own modes, as may best suit the content of his lusts,
and encourage him in a course of sinning; for, when they can frame
such a notion of God, as if he were a countenaneer of sin, they will
derive from thence a reputation to their crimes, commit wickedness
with an unbounded lieentiousness, and crown their vices with the
name of virtues, because thay are so like to the sentiments of that
God they fancy: from hence (as the Psalmist, in the Psalm before
mentioned) ariseth that mass of vice in the world; such conceptions
are the mother and nurse of all impiety. I question not but the Iirst
spring is some wrong notion of God, in regard of his holiness: we
are as apt to imagine God as we would have him, as the black Ethi-
opians were to draw the image of their gods after their own dark hue,
and paint him with their own color: as a philosopher in Theodoret
agen s; If oxen and lions had hands, and could paint as men do,
t ey would frame the images of their gods according to their own
likeness and complexion. Such notions of God render him a swinish
being, and worse than the vilest idols adored by the Egyptians, when
men tanc a God indulgent to their appetites and most sordid lusts.
2. In dlefacing the image of God in our own souls. God, in the
first draught of man, conformed him to his own image, or made him
an image of himself; because we End that in regeneration this image
is renewed (Eph. iv. 24); “The new man, which, after God, is crea-
ted in righteousness and true holiness. He did not take anffels for
his pattcm, in the first polishing the soul, but himself In djefacing
this image we cast dirt upon the holinew of God, which was his pat-
tern in the framing of us, and rather choose to be conformed to Sa-
tan, who is God’s grand enemy, to have God’s image wiped out of
ns, and the devil’s pictured in us: therefore, natural men, in an un-
regenerate state, may justly be called devils, since our Saviour called
the worst man, Judas, so (John vi. 1), and Peter, one of the best
(Matt. xvi. 23): and if this title be given, by an infallible J udge, to
one of the worst, and one of the best, it may, without wrong to any,
be ascribed to all men that wallow in their sin, which is directly con-
trary to that illustrious image God did imtprint upon them. How
often is it seen that men control the light o their own nature, and
stain the clearest beams of that candle of the Lord in their own
spirits, that fliiin the face of their own consciences, and sag' to them,
as Ahab to icaiah, Thou didst “ never prophesy goo to me ;"
thou didst never encourage me in those things that are pleasing to
the fiwh; and use it at the same rate as the wicked king did the
prophet, “imprison it in unrighteousness” Rom. i. 18), because it
starts up in them sometimes sentiments o the holinws of God,
which it represents in the soul of man! How jolly are many men
when the exhalations of their sensitive part rise up to cloud t e ex-
wctest principle of moral nature in their minds, an render the mon~

