174 cnamrocx on nm snmmurns.
strous principles of the law of corruption more livelyl Whence
ariseth the wickedness which hath been committed with an open
face in the world, and the applause that hath been often given to
the worst of villanies? Have we not known, among ourselves, men
to glory in their shame, and esteem that a most gentle accomplish-
ment of man, which is the greatest blot upon his natlue, and which,
if it were upon God, would render him no God, but an impure devil;
so that to be a gentleman among us hath been the same as to be an
incarnate devil; and to be a man, was to be no better, but worse,
than a brute? Vile wretchesl is not this a contempt of Divine holi-
ness, to kill that Divine seed which lies languishing in the midst of
corrupted nature; to cut up any sprouts of it as weeds unworthy tn
ow in their gardens, and cultivate what is the seed of hell; prefer
gle rotten fruits of Sodom, marked with a Divine 611188, before those
relics of the fruits- of Eden, of God’s own planting?
8. The holiness of God is injured in char 'ng our sin upon God.
Nothing is more natural to men, than to see? excuses for their sin,
and transfer it from themselves to the next at hand, and rather than
fail, shift it upon .God himself; and if they can bring God into a
society with them in sin, they will hughthemselves in a security that
God cannot punish that guilt wherein e is a artner. Adam’s chil-
dren are not of a different disposition from Adam himself, who, after
he was arraggned and brought to his trial, boggles not at iiinging his
dirt in the ace of God., his Creator, and accuseth him as if he had
given him 'the woman, not to be his help, but his ruin (Gen. iii. 12);
f‘ And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me,
she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.” He never supplicates tht
pardon, nor seeks a remedy, but reflects his crime upon God: Had
been alone, as I was first created, I had not eaten; but the woman,
whom I received as a special gilt from thee, hath roved my tempter
and my bane. When man could not be like God) in knowledge, he
endeavored to make God like him in his crime; and when his am~
bition failed of equalizing himselfwith God, he did, with an inso»
lence too common to corrupted nature, attempt, by the im utation
of his sin, to equal the Divinity with himselfl Some think (gain had
the same sentiment in his answer to God’s demand where his brother
was (Gen. ii. g); “Am I my brother’s keeper?" Art not thou the
Keeper and overnor of the world? why didst not thou take care
of him, and hinder my killing him, and drawing this guilt upon my-
self; and terror upon my conscience? David was not behin , when,
after the murder of Uriah, he sweeps the dirt from his own door to
God’s (2 Sam. xi. 25); “The swor devoureth one as well as an-
other ;” fathering that solely upon Divine Providence which was his
own wicked contrivance: though afterwards he is more ingenuous
in clearing God, and charging himself (Ps. li. 4% “Against thee,
thee only have I sinned;” and he clears God in is ju gment too.
It is too common for the-“ foolishness of man to lpervert his way ;"
and then “his heart frets against the Lord” ( rov. xix. 3). He
studies mischief; runs in a way of sin, and when he hath conjured u
troubles to himself, bg his own folly, he excuseth himself; and, with
indignation, charges od as the author both of his sin and misery,

