I
ON me nonnzass or son. 175
and sets his mouth against the heavens. It is a more horrible thing
to accuse God as a principal or accessary in our guilt, than to con-
ceive him to be a favorer of our iniquity; ' yet both are bad enough.
4. The holiness of God is injured when men will study arguments
from the holy word of God to color and shelter their crimes. When
men will seek for a shelter for their lies, in that of the midwives to
reserve the children, or in that of Rahab to save the spies, as if;
because God rewarded their fidelity, he countenanced their sin.
How often is Scripture wrested to be a plea for unbecoming prac-
tices, that God, in his word, may be imagined a patron for their in-
iquity ? It is not unknown that some have maintained their quail?
ing and carousing (from Eccles. viii. 11), “That a man hath no
better thing under the sun than to eat, drink, and be merry 1” and
their gluttony (from Matt. v. 11), “That which goes into the belly
denies not a man.” The J esmts’ morals are a transcript of this.
How often hath the Passion of our Saviour, the highest expression
of God’s holiness, been employed to stain it, and encourage t e most
debauched practices! Grrace hath been turned into wantonness, and
the abundance of grace been used as a blast to increase the flames
of sin, as if God had no other aim in that work of redemption, but
to discover himself more indulgent to our sensual appetites, and by
his severity with his Son, become more gracious to our lusts; this is
to feed the roots of hell with the dews of heaven, to make grace a
pander for the abuse of it, and to employ the expressions of his holi-
ness in his word to be a sword against the essential holiness of his
nature: as if a man should draw an apology for his treason out of
that law that was made to forbid, not to protect, his rebellion. Not
the meanest instrument in the temple was to be alienated from the
use it was by Divine order appointed to, nor was it to be employed
in any common use; and shal the word of God, which is the image
of his holiness, be transferred by base interpretations to be an advo-
cate for iniquity? Such an ill use of his word reilects upon that
hand which imprinted those characters of purity and righteousness
upon it: as the misinterpretation of the wholesome laws of a prince,
made to discourage debauchery, reflects upon his righteousness and
sincerity in enacting them.
5. The holiness of God is injured, when men will put up petitions
to God to favor them in a wicked design. Such there are, and taxed
by the apostle (James iv. 3), “ Ye ask amiss, that you may consume
it upon your lusts,” who desired mercies from God, with an intent
to make them instruments of sin, and weapons of unrighteousness;
as it is reported of a thief, that he alwa s pra ed for the success of
his robbery. It hath not been rare in the world to appoint fasts and
rayers for success in wars manifestly unjust, and commenced upon
breaches of faith. Many covetous men petition God to prosper them
in their unjust gain; as if the blessed God sat in his pure majesty
upon a throne of grace, to espouse unjust practices, and make iniquity
rosperous. There are such as “offer sacrifice with an cvil mind ’
€Prov. xxi. 27), to barter with God for a divine blessing to spirit a
wicked contrivance. How great a contempt of the holiness of God
is this! How inexcusable would it be for a favorite to address him-

