176 cnsiurocx ON run Arrnmurns.
self ti a just prince with this language: Sir, T desire a boon of suclh
lands that lie near me, for an addition to my estate, that I may have
supports for my debauchery, and be able to pls the villain more
powerfully among my neig borsl Hereby le implies that his prince
is a. frien to such crimes and wickedness he intends his petition for,
ls not this the language of many men’s hearts in the immediate pre-
sence of`God? The order of prayer runs thus, “Hallowed be thy
name ;” Hrst to have a deep sense of the holiness of the Divine na»
ture, and an ardent desire for the glory of it. This order is inverted
by asking those things which are not agreeable to the will of God,
not meet for us to ask, and not meet for God to give; or asking
things agreeable to the will of God, but with a w1cked intention.
This is, in effect, to desire God to strip himself of hi  holiness, and
commit sacrilege u on his own nature to gratify our lusts.
6. The urity ofp God is contemned, in hating and scoiiing at the
holiness which is in a creature. Whoever looks upon the holiness
of a creature as an unlovely thin , can have no good opinion of the
amiableness of Divine urity. Vghosoever hates those qualities and
graces that resemble (god in any person, must needs contemn the
original pattern, which is more eminent in God. If there be no
comeliness in a. creature’s holiness, to render it grateful to us, we
should say of God himself, were he visible among us, with those in
the prophet (Isa. liii.), “There is no beauty in him, that we should
desire him." Holiness is beautiful in itself If God be the most
lovely Being, that which is a likenessto him, so far as it doth resem-
ble him, must needs be amiable, because it partakes of God; and,
therefore, those that see no beauty in an inferior holiness, but con-
temn it because it is a purity above them, contemn God much more.
He that hates that which is im erfect merely for that excellency
which is in it, doth much more Eats that which is perfect, without
aniy mixture or stain. Holiness being the glory of God, the *peculiar
tit e of the Deity, and from him derived unto the nature o a crea-
ture, he that mocks this in a person, derides God himself ; and, when
he cannot abuse the purity in the Deity, he will do it in his ima ;
as rebels that cannot wrong the king in his person, will do it in ifis
picture, and his subjects that are loyal to him. He that hates the
picture of a man, hates the person represented by it much more; he
t at hates the beams, hates the sun; the holiness of a creature is but
a beam from that innnite Sun, a stream from that eternal Fountain.
Where there is a derision of the purity of any creature, there is a greater
reflection upon God in that derision, as he is the Author of it. If a
mixed and stained holiness be more the subject of any man’s scoiih
than a great deal of sin, that erson hath a disposition more roundly
to scoE at God himself] sho}11d)he appear in that unblernished and un-
spottcd purity which infinitely shines in' nis nature. Ol it is a dan-
geroust ingto scoff and deride holiness in any person, though never
so mean; such do deride and scoif at the most holy God.
7. The holiness of God is injured by our unprepared addresses to
him, when, like swine, we come into the presence of God with all
our mire reeking and steaming upon us. A holy God requires s
holy worship; and if our best duties, having filth in every part, as

