ON 'ms Honnvsss or con. 177
performed by us, are unmeet for God., how much more unsuitable
are dead and   duties to a living and immense holiness! Slight
approaches and drossy frames speak us to have imaginations of God
asof a slight and sottish being. This is worse than the heathens
practised, who would purge their flesh before the sacrificed, and
make some preparations in a seeming purity, before they would enter
into their temples. God is so holy, that were our services as refined
as those of angels, we could not present him with a service meet for
his holy nature (Josh. xxiv.19€; ` W'e contemn, then, this perfection,
when we come before him wit out due reparation; as if God him-
self were of an impure natiu°e, and did not deserve our urest
thoughts in our applications to him; as if any blemished and polluted
sacrifice were good enough for him, and his nature deserved no
better. When we excite not those elevated frames of spirit which
are due to such a being, when we think to put hini off with a lame
and imperfect service, we worship him not according to the excel-
lency of his nature, but put a sl' ht u on his majestic sanctity.
When we nourish in our duties liose fliolish imaginations which
creep upon us; when we bring into, and continue our worldly, car-
nal, debauched fancies in his resence, worse than the nasty servants,
or bemired dogs, a man would blush to be attended with in his visits
to a neat person. To be conversin with sordid sensualities, when
we are at the feet of an infinite Gm? sitting upon the throne of his
holiness, is as much a contem t of him, as it would be of a prince,
to bring a vessel full of nasty diiing with us, when we come to resent
a petition to him in his royal robes; or as it would have been to
God, if the high priest should have swept all the blood and excre-
ments of the sacrifices from the foot of the altar into the Holy of
holies, and heaped it u before the mercy-seat, where the presence
of God dwelt between the chcrubims, and afterwards shovelled it up
into the ark, to be lodged with Aaron’s rod and the pot of mauna.
8. God’s holiness is slighted in depending upon our imperfect
services to bear us out before the tribimal of God. This is too or-
dinary. The Jews were often infected with it (Rom.   10), who,
not well imderstanding the enormity of their taansgressions, the
interweaving of sin with their services, and the unspottedness of the
Divine purity, mingled an opinion of merit with their sacrifices,
and thought, by the cutting the throat of a beast, and offering it
upon Gods altar, the had made a suflicient compensation to that
holiness they had offended. Not to speak of many among the
Rornaiists who have the same notion, thinking to make satisfaction
to God by erecting an hospital, or endowing a church, as if this in-
iured perfection could be contented with the dregs of their purses,
and the offering of an unjust mammon, more likely to mind God of
the injury they have done him, than contribute to the appeasing of
him. But is it not too ordinary with miserable men, whose con-
sciences accuse them of their crimes, to rel upon the mumbling of
a few formal prayers, and in the stren h of them, to think to stand
before the tremendous tribunal of Got? and meet with a discharge
upon this account from any accusation this Divine perfection can
present against them? Nay, do not the best Christians sometimes
vol.. 11.-12

