178 crumvocx ON rnra: srrnmnrrs.
Bud a. principle in them, that makes them stumble in their going!
forth to Christ, and glorifying the holiness of God in that method
which he hath appointed? Sometimes casting an eye at their
grace, and sticking awhile to this or that duty, and gazingat the
glory of the temple-building, while they should more admire the
glorious Presence that fills it. What is all this but a villifying of
the holiness of the ‘Divine nature, as thou h it would be well enough
contented with our impurities and im ergections, because they look
~like a righteousness in our estimation; As though dross and dung,
which are the titles theapostles gives to all the righteousness of a
fallen creature §Phil.   8), were valuable in the sight of God, and
sufficient to ren er us comely before him. It is a blasphemy against
this attribute, to pretend that anything so imperfect, so daubed, as
the best of our services are, can answer to that which is infinitely
perfect, and be a ground of demanding eternal life: it is at best, to
set up a gilded Dagon, as a fit companion' for the ark of his Holi-
ness; our own ri hteousness as a suitable mate for the righteousness
of God: as if he had reptented of the claim he made by the law to an
exact conformity, and t rown oif the holiness of his nature for the
fondling of a corrupted creature. Rude and foolish notions of the
Divine p1u'ity are c early evidenced by any confidence in -any right-
eousness of our own, though never so sp endid. It is a rendering
the righteousness of God as dull and obscure as that of men; a
mere outside, as their own; as blind as the heathens pictured their
Fortune, that knew as little how to discern the nature and value of
the offerings made to her, as to distribute her   as if it were all
one to them, to have a dog or a lamb presented in sacrifice. As if
God did not well understand his own nature, when he enacted so
holy a law, and strengthened it with so severe a threatening; which
must follow upon our conceit, that he will accept a righteousness
lower than that which bears some suitableness to the holiness of his
own nature, and that of his law; and that he cou.ld easily be put off
with a pretended and counterfeit service. _ What are the services of
the generality of men, but suppositions, that they-can bribe God to
an indulgence of them in their sins, and by an oral sacr'i.’¢ice, cause
him to divest himself of his hatred of their former iniqgrities, and
countenance their following practises. As the harlot, t at would
return fresh to her uncleanness, upon the conidence that her peace
offering had contented the righteousness of God (Prov.   143: as
though a small service could -make him wink at our sins, an lay
aside the glory of his nature; when, alas! the best duties in the
most gracious persons in this life, are but as the steams of a spiced
dung- ill, a composition of myrrh and froth, since there are swarms
of conuptions in their nature, and secret sins that they need a
cleansing from. _
9. It is a contemning the holiness of God, when we charge the
law of God with rigidness. We cast dirt upon the holiness of God
when we blame the law of God, because it shackles us, and pro
hibit our desired pleasures; and hate the law of God, as they did
the-prophets, because they did' not prophesy smooth things; but
called to them, to “get” t em “ out of t e way, and t\u'n aside out

