ON ms notnmss or son. 179
ofthe path, and cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before
them” (Isa. xxx. 10, 11). Put us no more in mind of the holiness
of God, and the holiness of his law; it is a troublesome thin for
us to hear of it: let him be gone from us, since he   not
countenance our vices, and indulge our crimes ° we would rather
hear there is a God., than you wo d tell us of a holy one. We are
contraryto the law, when we wish it were not so exact; and, there-
fore, contrary to the holiness of God, which set the stamp of exact-
ness and righteousness upon it. We think him injurious to our
liberty, when,   precept he thwarts our pleasure; we wish
it of another me, more mild, more suitable to our minds: it
is the same, as if we should openly blame God for consultin with
his own righteousness, and not with our humors, before he set-
tled his law; that he should not have drawn from the depths of his
rigllgteous natme, but squared it to accommodate our corru tion.
T ` being the language of such complaints, is a reproving Gold, be-
cause he would not be unholy, that we might be unrighteous with
impunity. Had the Divine law been suited to our corru t state,
God must have been unholy to have complied with his reqmllious
creature. To charge the law with rigidness, either in language or
practice, is the hi hest contempt of God’s holiness; for it is an im-
plicit wigh, phat god were as deled, polluted, disorderly, as our
corru te se ves.
10.pThe holiness of God is injured o(pinionatively. (1). In the
opinion of venial   The Romanists ivide sins into venial and
mortal: mortal, are those which deserve eternal death; venial, the
liihter sort of sins, which rather deserve to be pardoned than pun-
is ed; or if punished, not with an eternal, but temporal punish-
ment. This opinion hath no foundation in, but is contrary to, Scrip-
true. How can any sin he in its own nature venial, when the due
“wages of every sin is death” (Rom. vi. 23)? and he who “con-
tinues not in eve thing that the law commands,” falls under a
“curse” glal.   13 It IS a mean thought of the holiness and mag
jesty of od to imagine, that any sin which is against an infinite
majest , and as infimte a urity both in the nat\u~e of God and the
law oiyGod, should not Ee considered as innnitely heinous. All
sins are transgremions of the eternal law, and in eve? one the in-
finite holiness of God is some way slighted. (2). In t e opinion of
Works of supererogation. That is, such works as are not commanded
by God, which yet have such a dignity and worth in their own
nature, that the erformers of them do not only merit at God’s hands
for themselves, hht fill up a treasure of merits for others, that come
short of fulfilling the precepts God hath enjoined. It is such a mean
thought of God s holiness, that the Jews, in all the chargtes brought
against them in Scripture, were never guilty o£ And you con-
sider what pitiful thmgs they are, which are within the compass of
such works, you have sutlicient reason to bewail the ignorance of
man, and the low esteem he hath of so glorious a perfection. The
whipping themselves often in a week, extraordinary watchings, fast-
ings macerating their bodies, wearing a C8$1Cl111l,S habit, &c. are
Ditifiul things to give content to an Infinite urity. As if the pre-
t

