180 cniuznocx ON 'mrs mrrnmnms.
cept of God required only the inferior degrees of virtue, and the
counsel-s the more high and excellent; as if the law of God, which
the Psalmist counts “perfect” (Ps. xix. 7), did not command all good,
and forbid all evil; as if the holiness of God had forgotten itself in
the framing the law, and made it a scanty and defective rule; and
the righteousness of a. creature were not only ableto make an eternal
righteousness, but surmount it. As man would be at first as know-
ing as God, so some of his posterity would be more holy than God ;
ppt up a wisdom against the wisdom of God, and a piarity aboivel the
ivine urit . am was not so resum tuous; e mten e no
more thldn ari equalling God in knowqedge;pbut those would exceed
nim in righteousness, and not onl presume to render a satisfaction
for themselves to the holiness they have injured, but to make a.
purse for the supply of others that are indigent, that they may stand
cfore the tribunal of God with a confidence in the imaginary right-
eousness of a creature. How horrible is it for those that come
short of the law of God themselves, to think that they can have
enough for a loan to their neighbors! An unworthy opinion.
Inform. 2. It may inform us, how great is our fall from God, and
how distant we are from him. View the holiness of God, and take
a prospect of the nature of man, and be astonished to see a person
create in the Divine image, degenerated into the im of the devil.
We are as far fallen from the holiness of God, whiiie consists in a
hatred of sin, as the lowest point of the earth is Bom the highest
point of the heavens. The devil is not more fallen from the rectitude
of his nature and likeness to God, than we are; and that we are not
in the same condition with those apostate spirits, is not from any-
thing in our nature, but from the mediation of Christ, upon which
account God hath indulged in us a continuance of some remaindera
of that which Satan is wholly deprived of We are de arbed from
our original pattern; we were created to live the “life ofp God,” that
that is, a life of “holiness ;” but now we are “alienated from the
life of God” (Eph. iv. 18), and of a beautiful piece we are become
deformed, daubed over with the most defilin mud: we “work un-
cleanness with greediness,” according to our aliility, as creatlues; as
God doth work “holiness” with affection and ardency, according to
his infiniteness, as Creator. More distant we are from God by reason
of sin, than the vilest creature, the most deformed toad, or poisonous
serpent, is from the highest and most lorious angel. By forsaking
our innocence, we departed from God as our original copy. The
apostle might well say (Rom.   23), that by sin “ we are come short
"1 the glory of God’ Interpreters trouble themselves much about
that place, “Man is come short of the lory of God,” that is, of the
holiness of God, which is the glory ofg the Divine nature, and was
pictured in the rational, innocent creature. B the “glory of God,”
15 meant the holiness of God; (as 1 Cor. iii. 18; “ Beholdin_g, as in a
glaass, the glory of the Lord, we are changed into the same image
m glory to glory ;” that is the glori of God in the text, into thc
image of which we are changed; but t e Scripture spleaks of no other
im of God, but that of holiness; “ we are come s ort of the glory
of geodf’ of the holiness of God, which is the glory of God; and

