ON THE HOLItNESS.0F con. 181
the image of it, which was the glory of man. By sin, which is par-
ticular in opposition to the purity of God, man was left many leagues
behind any resemblance to God; he stripped off that which was the
glory of his nature, and was the only means of glorifying God as
is Creator. The word o<m¢otwa=, the apostle uses, is very signifi-
cant,-postponed by sin an infinite distance from any imitation of
God’s holiness, or any a pearance before him in a garb of nature
pleasing to him. Let uslament our fall and distance from God.
Inform. 3. All unholinesss is vile, and opposite to the nature of
God. It is such a loathsome thing, that the “ purit of God’s eye is
averse from beholding” (Hab. i. 3). It is not said there, that he will
not, but he cannot, look on evil ; there cannot be any amicableness
between God and sin, the natures of both are so directly and un-
:hangeably contrar to one another. Holiness is the life of God; it
endures as long as his life; he must be eternally averse from sin, he
can live no longer than he lives in the hatred and loathing of it. If
he should for one instant cease to hate it, he would cease to live. To
be a holy God, is as essential to him, as to be a living God; and he
would not be a. living God, but a dead God, if he were in the least
point of time an unholy God. He cannot look on sin without loath-
ing it; be cannot look on sin but his heart riseth against it; it must
needs be most odious to him, as that which is against the glory of
his nature, and directly opposite to that which is the lustre and var-
nish of all his other perfections. It is the “abominable thing which
his soul hates” (Jer. xliv. 4) ; the vilest terms imaginable are used to
signify it. Do you understand the loathsomeness of a miry swine,
or the nanseousness of the vomit of a dog? these are emblems of
sin (2 Peter ii. 22). Can you endure the steams of putrefied carcasses
from an open sepulchre (Rom. iii. 23)? is the smell of the stinking
sweat or excrements of a body delightful? the word éurmglu in James
i. 21, signiiies as much. Or is the si ht of a body overgrown with
scabs and leprosy grateful to you? go vile, so o ious is sin, in the
sight of God. It is no light thing, then, to ily in the face of God;
to break his eternal law; to dash both the tables in pieces: to tram-
ple the transcript of God’s own nature under our feet; to cherish
that which was inconsistent with his honor; to lift up our heels
against the glory of his nat1u‘e; to join issue with the devil in stab-
bing his heart, and depriving him of his life. Sin, in every part of
it, is an op&>sition to the holiness of God, and conseipéently an envy-
Ing him a ing and life, as well as a glory. If sin such a thing,
“ ye that love the Lord, hate evil.”
_ Inform. 4. Sin cannot escape a due punishment. A hatred of un-
rlghteousness, and consequently a wil to punishpit, is as essential to
God as a love of righteousness. Since he is not as an heathen idol,
but hath eyes to see, and purity to hate every iniquity, he will have
an inlinite justice to punish whatsoever is against infinite holiness.
As he loves everything that is amiable, so he loathes eve thing that
is filthy, and that constantly, without any change: his wrhole nature
-ls set against it; he abhors nothing but this. It is not the devil’s
knowledge or activity that his hatred is terminated in, but the malice
and unholiness of his nature; it is this only is the object of his se-
\

