182 cmnuocx. on rim srrnrsurns.
verity ; it is in the recompense of this only that there can be a man-
ifestation of his justice. Sin must be punished' for,
1. This detestation of sin must be manifested. How should we
certainly know his loathing of igif he did not manifest, by some act,
how ungrateful it is to him? his love to righteousness would
not aplpear, without rewarding it; so his hatred o iniquity would be
as litt e evidenced, without punishing it; his justice is the great
witness to his purity. The punishment, therefore, inflicted on the
wicked, shall be, in some respect, as great as the rewards bestowed
upon the righteous. Since the hatred of sin is natural to God, it
is as natural to him to show, one time or other, his hatred of it.
.And since men have a conceit that God is like them in impurity, there
is e. necessity of some manifestation of himself to be infinitely distant
from those conceits they have of him (Ps. l. 21); “ I will reprove
thee, and set them in order before thine eyes.” He would else en-
courage the injuries done to his holiness, favor the extravagances of
the creature, and condemn, or atleast slight, the righteousness both
of his own nature, and his sovereign law. What way is there for
God to manifest his hatred, but by threatening the sinner? and what
would this be but a vain aiirightment, and ridiculous to the sinner,
if it were never to be gmt in execution? There is an indissoluble
connection between his atred of sin, and punishment of the offender
(Ps. xi. 5, 6); “The wicked, his soul hates. Upon the wicked he shall
rain snares, fire, and brimstone,” &c. He cannot approve of it without
denying himself; and a total impunity would be a degree of appro-
bation. The displeasure of God 18 eternal and irreconcileable against
sin; for sin being' absolutely, contrary to his holy nature, -he is eter-
nalliy; contrary to it; if there be not, therefore, a way to separate the
sin om the sinner, the sinner inust lie under the displeasure of God;
no displeasure can be manifested without some mar of it u n the
person that lies under that displeasiue. The holinem of (ggi will
right itself of the wrongs done to it, and scatter the profanexs of it
at the greatest distance from him, which is the greatest punishment
that can be inflicted; to be removed far from the Fountain of Life is
the worst of deaths; God can as soon lay aside his purit , as always
forbear his displeasure afgainst an impure person; it is all one not to
hate it, and not to man' est his hatred of it.
2. As his holiness is natural and necessary, so is the punishment of
unholiness necessary to him. It is necessary that he should abomi-
nate sin, and therefore necessary he should discountenance it. The
severities of God against sin are not vain scare-crows; they have
their foundation in the righteousness of his nature; it is because he
is a righteous and holy God, that he “will not forgive our transgrw-
sions and sins” (Josh. xxiv. 19), that is, that he will punish em.
The throne of his “holiness is a fiery flame" (Dan. vii. 9); there is
both a pure li ht and a scorching heat. Whatsoever is contrary to
the nature of god, will fall under the justice of God; he would else
violate his own nature, deny his own erfection, seem to be out of
love with his own glory and life. He dbth not hate it out of choice,
but from the immutable propen ion of his nature; it is not so free
an act of his will, as the creation of man and angels, which he might

