ON mn Honmnss or Gon. 188
have forborne as well as effected. As the detestation of sin results
from the universal rectitude of his nature, so the punishment of sin
follows u on that, as he is the righteous Governor ol' the world: it
is as much) against his nature not to punish it, as it is against his na-
ture not to loathe it; he would cease to he holy if he ceased to hate
it, and he would cease to hate it if he ceased to punish it. Neither
the obedience of our Saviour’s life, nor the strength of his cries,
could put a bar to the cup of his passion; God so hated sin, that
when it was but imputed to his Son, without any commission of it,
he would bring a he l upon his soul. Certainly if God could have
hated sin without punishing it, his Son had never felt the smart of
his wrath; his love to his Son had been strong enou h to have caused
him to forbear, had not the holiness of his naturegbeen stronger to
move him to inflict a punishment according to the demerit of his
sin. God cannot but be holy, and therefore cannot but be just, be-
cause injustice is a part of unholiness. -
3. Therefore there can be no communion between God and un-
hol s ` `ts. How is it conceivable, that God should hate the sin,
andy omaha the sinner, with all his ‘filth in his bosom? that he
should eternally detest the crime, and eternally fold the sinner in
his arms? Can less be expected from the purity of his natiue, than
to separate an impure soul, as long as it remains so? Can there be
any elightful communion between those whose natures are contrary?
Darkness and li ht may as soon kiss each other, and become one
nature: God auf the devil may as soon enter into an eternal league
and covenant together. For God to have pleasure in wickedness,
and th admit evii to dwell with him, are eqhauy impossible to his
nature (Ps. v. 4) : while he hates impurity, he cannot have com-
munion with an impure person. It may as soon be expected, that
God should hate himself; offer violence to his own nature, lay aside
his purity as an abominable thing, and blot his own glory, as love
an impure person, entertain him as his delight, and set him in the
same eaven and happiness with himself, and his holy angels. He
must needs loathe him, he must needs banish him from his presence,
which is the greatest punishment. God’s holiness and hatred of sin
necessarily infer the punishment of it.
Inform. 5. There is, therefore, a necessity of the satisfaction of the
holiness of God b some sutlicient mediator. The Divine purity
could not meet with any acquiescence in all mankind after the fall:
sin was hated; the sinner would be ruined, unless some way were
found out to repair the wrongs done to the holiness of God; either
the sinner must be condemned for ever, or some satisfaction must be
made, that the holiness ofthe Divine nature might eternally appear
in its full lustre. That it is essential to the nature of God to hate all
unrighteousnoss, as that which is absolutel repugnant to his nature,
none do question. That the justice of God is so essential to him, as
that sin could not be pardoned without satisfaction, some do ques-
tion ; though this latter seems rationally to follow upon the former.y
That holiness is essential to the nature of God, is evident; because,
else, God may as much be conceived without purity, as he might be
f`Turretin. de Satisfac. D. 8.

