'184 cnmmocx ON THE xrrnmurss.
conceived without the creating the sun or stars. No man can, in
his ri ht wits, frame a right notion of a Deity without purity. It
would be less blasphemy against the excellency of God, to conceit
him not khowing, than to imagine him not holy : and, for the essen-
tialness of his justice, Joshua joins both his holiness and his jealousy
as oing hand in hand together (Josh. xxiv. 19); “He is a holy
Goci he is a jealous God, he will not forgive your sin.” But con-
sider onl the purity of God, since it is contrary to sin, and, conse-
uently, hating the sinner; the guilty person cannot be reduced to
Eod, nor can the holiness of God have any complacency in a filthy
erson, but as ire hath in stubble, to consume it. How the holy
god should be brought to delight in man without a salvo for the
rights of his holiness, is not to be conceived without an impeach-
ment ofthe nature of God. The law could not be abolished; that
would reflect, indeed, upon the righteousness of the Lawgiver: to
abolish it, because of sin, would imply a. change of the rectitude of
his nature. Must he change his ho iness for the sake of that which
was against his holiness, in a compliance with a profane and un-
righteous creature? This should engage him rather to maintain his
law, than to null it; and to abrogate his law as soon as he had en-
acted it, since sin stepped into the world presently after it, would be
no credit to his wisdom. There must be a reparation made of the
honor of God’s holiness; by ourselves it could not be without con-
demnation; by another it could not be without a, suiiicienciy in the
person: no creature could do it. All the creatures being o a finite
nature, could not make a compensation for the disparagements of
Infinite Holiness. He must have despicable and vile thou fhts of this
excellent perfection, that imagines that a few tears, and ihe glaver-
ing fawnings at the death of a creature, can be sufficient to repair
the wrongs, and restore the rights of this attribute. It must, therefore,
be such a compensation as might be comrnenslunte to the holiness of
the Divine nature and the Divine law, which could not be wrought
by any, but Him that was possessed of a. Godhead to give efhcacy
and exact congruity to it. The Person designed and appointed by
God for so eat an affair, was “one in the orm of Go , one equal
with God,”§l’hi1. ii. 6), who could not be termed by such a title of
dignity, if he had not been equal to God in the universal rectitude
of the Divine nature, and therefore in his holiness. The unishment
due to sin is translated to that plelrson for the righting lgivine holi-
ness, andthe righteousness of t t Person is communicated to the
sinner for the pardon of the offending creature. If the sinner had
been eternally damned, God’s hatred of sin had been evidenced by
the strokes of his justice; but his mercy to a sinner had lain in ob-
scurity. Ifthe sinner had been pardoned and saved without such a
reparation, mercy had been evi ent; but his holiness had hid its
head for ever in his own bosom. There was therefore a necessity of
such a way to manifest his purity, and yet to bring forth his mercy:
that mercy might not alway sigh for the destruction of the creatine,
and that holiness might not mourn for the neglect of its honor.
Irzbrrn. 6. Hence it will follow, there is no justification of a sin-
ner y any thing in himself After sin had set foot in the world,

