ON THE nonnvsss or aon. 185
man could present nothing to God acceptable to him, or bearing any
proportion to the holiness of his law, till God set forth a Person,
upon whose account the acceptation of om' persons and services is
founded (Eph. i. 6), “ Who hath made us accepted in the Beloved.”
The Infinite purity of God is so glorious, that it shames the holiness
if angels, as the light of the sun dims the light of the fire; much
more will the righteousness of fallen man, who is vile, and “ drinks
upminiquity like water,” vanish into nothing in his presence. With
w t self-abasement and abhorrence ought he to be powessed that
comes as short of the angels in purity, as a dunghill doth of a star!
The highest obedience that ever was performed by any mere man,
since lapsed nature, cannot challenge an acceptance with God, or
stand before so exact an in uisition. W)hat person hath such a clear
innocence, and uns otted ohedience in such a erfection, as in any
degreetosuit the holliness of the Divine nature ? Elm. cxliii. 2? : “Enter
not into judgment with thy servant, for in thy sight shal no man
living be justified." If God should debate the case simply with a
man in his own person, without respecting the Mediator, he were
not able to “answer one ofa thousand.” fhough we are his ser-
vants, as David was, and perform a sincere service, yet there are
many little motes and dust of sin in the best works, that cannot lie
undiscovered from the eye of his holiness; and if we come short in
the least of what the law requires, we are “ uilty of all" (James ii.
10). So that “ In thy sight shall no man givin be justified;” in
the sight of thy infinite holiness, which hates the deast spot; in the
sight of thy infinite justice, which punishes the least transgres-
sion. God would descend below his own nature, and vilify both
his knowledge and his purity, should he accept that for a rig teous-
nesa and holiness which is not so in itself; and nothing is so, which
hath the least stain upon it contrary to the nature of God. The
most holy saints in Scripture, upon a prospect of his urity, have
cast away all confidence in themselves; every fiash ofp the Divine
purity has struck them into a deep sense of their own impurity and
shame for it (Job xlii. 6), “Wherefore I abhor myself in dust and
ashes.” What can the language of any man be that lies under a
sense of infinite holiness and lhis own defilement in the least, but
that of the prophet (Isa. vi. v), “ Woe is me, I am undone ?” And
what is there in the world can administer any other thought than
this, unless God be considered in Christ, “reconciling the world to
hl111S€lf?“ As a holy God, so ri hted, as that he can dispense with
the condemnation of a sinner, without dispensing with his hatred of
sin; pardoning the sin in the criminal, because it hath been punish-
ed in the Surety. That righteousness which God hath “set forth”
for justification, is not our own, but a “righteousness which is of
God" (Phil.   9, 10%, of God’s appointing, and of God’s per-
forming; appointed by t e Father, who is God, and performed by the
Son, who is one with the Father; a righteousness surmounting that
of all- the glorious angels, since it is an immutable one whici can
never fail, an “ everlastingri hteousness” (Dan. ix. 24); a righteous~
ness wherein the holiness of god can acquiesce, as considered in it~
lelibecause it is a righteousness of one equal with God. As we

