186 cnasnocx on rm: A-rnuzaurrs.
therefore dishonor the Divine Majesty when we insist upon our own
bemired righteousness for our justification (as if a “a mortal man
were as just as God,” and a “man as pure ashis Maker” (Job iv.
17 ), so we highly honor the purity of his nature, when we charge
oiuselves with folly, acknowledge oluselves unclean, and accept
of that ri hteousness which gives a full content to his iniinite
puritylk 'lqiere can' be no justihcation of a sinner by anything in
Infofrm. 7. If holiness be a glorious perfection of the Divine na»
ture, then the Deity of Christ might be argued from hence. He is
indeed dignified with the title of the “Ho y One” (Acts iii. 14, 16)
a title often `ven to God in the Old Testament; and he is called
the “Holy ofgholies” (Dan. ix. 24); but because the angels seemed
to be termed “Holy ones” (Dan. iv. 13 17), and the most sacred
place in the temple was also called the “Holy of holies," I shall not
insist upon that. But you ind our Saviom° particularly applauded
by the angels, as “ holy,” when this perfection of the Divine nature,
together with the incommunicable name of God, are linked together,
and ascribed to him (Isa. vi. 3); “ Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of
Hosts; and the whole earth is full of his glory ;” which the apostle
interprets of “Christ” (John xii. 39, 41). Isaiah, again: “He hath
blin ed their eyes, and hardened their hearts, that they should not
see with their eyes, nor understand with their hearts, and be con-
verted, and I should heal them.” These things said Isaiah, when he
saw'his glory, and spake of him._ He that Isaiah saw environed
with the seraphims, in a. reverential posture before his face, and
praised as most holy by them, was the true and eternal God; such
acclamations belong to none but the great Jehovah, God, blessed
forever; but, saith John, it was the “glo of Christ” that Isaiah
saw in this vision; Christ, therefbre, is “ EA blessed forever,” of
whonl; it was said, “ Holy, hol , holy Lord of Hosts.”= The evan
glelist ‘had been speaking of Clilrist, the miracles which he wrought,
t e obstinaoy oft e Jews against believing on him; his glory, there-
fore, is to be refen‘ed to the sub`ect he had been spleaking of The
evangelist was not s eaking of the Father, but of t e Son, and cites
those words out of Isaiah ; not to teach anything of the Father, but
to show that the Jews could not believe in Christ. He speaks of
him that had wrought so man miracles; but Christ wrought those
miracles: he speaks of him wliom the Jews refused to be ieve on;
but Christ was the person they would not believe on, while they ac-
knowledged God. It was the glory of this person Isaiah saw, and
this person Isaiah spake of; if the words of the evangelist be of any
credit. The angels are too hol to give acclamatious belonging to
God, to an but him that is Godl
.I7lf01`m.   God is fully fit for the government of the world. The
ri hteousness of God’s nature qualifies him to be Judge of the world ,
  were not perfectly righteous and holg, he were incapable to
govern and judge the worl (Rom. iii. 5); “ f there be unrighteous-
ness with God, ow shall he judge the world ?” “God wil not do
wickedly, neither will the Almig ty pervert judgment” (Job xxxiv.
' Plaoeus, de Deitat. Christi, in los.

