ON THE nomnsss or con. 187
12). Hgw grescpicalge is adjudge   ilflnocenclel Ashomni-
science ts to eajuge,so o'ne$ ts imto earigteous
judge (Ps. i. 6): “The Lord knows,” that is, loves, “the way of the
righteous; blgtllie way cg' the ungodly shialfl perishi: h D1
In orm. 9. oliness e an eminent e ection o t e 'vine na,-
ture,`/the Christian religion is of a Diviiie extraction: it discovers
the holiness of God, and forms the creature to a conformity to him.
It g1ves,}1s a prospect of his nature, represents him m the “beauty of
holiness (Ps. cx._ 3), more than the whole gloass of the creation. It
is in this evangeheal glass the (glory of the rd is beheld, and ren-
dered amiable and imitable (2 or.   18). It is_a doctrine “ aecord~
mg to godl1ness”é1 'I‘1m. vi. 3), directing us to hve the life of God;
a life worthy of od, and worthy of our first creation by his hand.
It takes us off from ourselves, fixeth us u n a noble end, points
our actions, and the scope of our lives to (ibod. It quells the mon-
sters of sin, discountenanceth the motes of wickedness; and it is no
mean argument for the divinity of it, that it sets us no lower a pat-
tern for our imitation, than the holiness of the Divine Majesty.
God is exalted upon the throne of his holiness in it, and the creature
zdyanced to an 1I118.§6 and resemblance of it (1 Pet. i. 16; : “ Be ye
0 , for I am hol .
la dsc 2. The iacdhd use is for leomfort. This attribute frowns upon
nature, ut smiles in t e restorations made b the os 1.
G%holiness, in conjunction with his justice, is terribile to agguiliy
sinner; but now, in conjunction with his mercy, by the satisfaction
of Christ, it is sweet to a believing penitent. In the “ first cove-
nant,”_ the punty of his nature was joined with the rigors of his__]us-
tice; inthe “second covenant,” the lplsurity of his nature is joined
with the sweetness and tenderness of ` mercy. In the one, justice
flames against the sinner in the right of injured holiness; in the
other, mere yearns towards a believer, with the consent of righted
holinem. 'llc rejoice in the holiness of God is the true and genuine
spirit of a renewed man : “M heart re`oiceth in the Lord ;’ -what
ollows ?-“ There is none holy as the Iiord” (1 Sam. ii. 1, 2). Some
perfections of the Divine nature are astonishing, some aii"righting;
ut this may fill us both with astonishment at it, and a joy in it.
1. By covenant, we have an interest in this attribute, as well as
any other. In that clause of “God’s being our God,” entire God
witih all his glorylh all ‘his pegfections are paslsegr gver is aGpoirtion,‘
an a acious so is rou t into union wit o ,as is o ; not
with agjiart of God, but   God in the simplicity, extent, integrity
of his nature; and therefore in this attribute. And, upon some ac-
count, it may seem more in this attribute than in any other; for if
llc be our God, he is our God in his life and glory, and therefore in
h1BgJl1I'ity especially, without which he could not live; he could not
be spiny an blessed. Little comfort will it be to have a dead God,
Or a ` e God, made over to us; and as, by this covenant, he is our'
Father, so he gives us his nat1u°e, and communicates his holiness in
itll his dispensations; and in those that are severest, as well as those
that are sweetest (Heb.   10): “But he coructs us for our profit,
that we might be partakers of his holiness.” Not simply “ partak

