188 cxnauocx ON ms Amammms.
ers of holiness,” but of “his holiness ;” to have a portraiture of it in
our nature, a medal of it in our hea.rts, a spark of the same nature
,with that immense splendor and flame in himself The holiness of
a covenant soul is a resemblance of the holiness of God, and formed
by it; as the picture of the sun in a cloud is a fruit of his beams,
and an image of its author. The fulness of the perfection of holi-
ness remains in the nature of God, as the fulness of the light doth
in the sun; yet there are transmissions of li ht from the sun to the
moon, and it is a light of the same nature boar in the one and in the
other. The holiness of a creature is nothing else but a reflection of
the Divine holiness upon it; and to make the creature capable of it,
God takes various methods, according to his covenant ace.
2. This attribute renders God a fit object for trust angdependence.
The notion of an unholy and unri hteous God, is an uncomfortable
idea of him, and beats off our hands from laying any hold of him.
It is upon this attribute the reputation and honor of God in the
world is built; what encouragement can we have to believe him, or
what incentives could we have to serve him, without the lustre of
this in his nature? The very thought of an unrighteous God is
enough to drive men at the greatest distance from him; as the hon-
esty of a man gives a reputation to'his word, so doth the holiness of
God give credit to his promise. It is by this he would have us stifle
our fears and fortify our trust (Isa. xli. 14): “Fear not, thou worm
Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will help thee, saith the Lord, and
th Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel : ’ he will be in his actions
wliat he is in his nature. Nothing shall make him deiile his own
excellency; unrighteousness is the ground of mutability; but the
sromise of God oth never fail, because the rectitude o his nature
oth never lan ish: were his attributes without the conduct of
this, the would-u be altogether formidable. As this is the glory of
all his other perfections, so this only renders him comfortable to a be-
lieving soul. Might we not fear his power to crush us, his mercy to
overlook us, his wisdom to design against us, if this did not iniiu-
ence them? What an oppression is power Without righteousnem in
the hand of a creature; destructive, instead of protecting I The
devil is a mighty spirit, but not fit to be trusted, because he is an im-
pure spirit. When God would give us the highest security of the
sincerity of his intentions, he swears b this attribute (Ps. viii. 35):
his holiness, as well as his truth, is laid, to qpewn for the security of
his promise. As we make God the judge tween us and o ers,
when we swear by him, so he makes his holiness the judge between
himself and his peo le, when he swears by it.
(L) It is this rend)ers him Ht to be connded in for the answer of
our prayers. This is the ground of his readiness to give. “ If you,
being evil, know how to give good gifts, how much more shall your
Father which is in heaven 've good   to them that ask im"
(Matt. vii. 11)l Though the iloliness of od be not mentioned, et it
is to be understood; the emphasis lies on these words, “if you, being
evil :” God is then considered in a disposition contrary to this, Whic
can be nothing but   righteousness. If you that are unholy, and
have so much corrup ion in you, to render you cruel, can bestow

