» ON ms Honmsss or con. 189
?on your children the good things they want, how much more shall
od, w‘ho is holy, and hath nothing in him to check his mercifulness
to his creatures, grant the petitions of his supplicantsl It was this
attribute edged the fiduciary importunity of the souls under the
altar, for the reventging their blood unjustly shed upon the earth:
“How long, O Lor , hol and true, dost thou not avenge our blood
on 'them that dwell on the earth” (Rev. vi. 10)? Let not thy holi-
ness stand with folded arms, as careless of the eminent suiferings of
those }that fear thele; we iinplore thee by the holiness of thy nature,
andt etruth of t wor.
(2.) This rendersyhim tit to be confided in for the comfort of our
souls in a broken condition. The reviving the hearts of the spirit-
uall afflicted, is a art of the holiness of his nature; “ Thus saith
the ` h and lofty 8ne that inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy;
I dwe in the high and holy place with him also that is of a con-
trite and humble spirit, to revive the s irit of the humble” (Isa. lvii.
15). He acknowledgeth himself the lofty One; they mi ht there-
fore fear he would not revive them; but he is also the holy One,
and therefore he will refresh them ; he is not more lofty than he is
holy; besides, the argument of the immutabilitiy of his promise, 'and
the might of his power, here is the holiness o his nature moving
him to pity his drooping creature: his promise is ushered in with
the name of power, “h1gh and lofty One,” to bar their distrust of
hisstrength, and with a declaration of his holiness, to check any
despair of his will : there is no ground to think I should be false to
my word, or misemploy my dpower, since that cannot be, because of
the holiness of my name an nature.
(3.) This renders him fit to be conided in for the maintenance of
, and protection of us against our spiritual enemies. What our
gavaiidur thought an argument in prayer, we may well take as a
ground of our confidence. In the strength of this he puts up his
suit, when in his mediatory capacity he intercedes for the preserva-
tion of his people (John xvii. 11); “Holy Father, keep through
thy own name t ose that thou hast given me, that they may be one
as we are.” “ Ho? Father,” not ,merciful Father, or powerful, or
wise Father, but “ oly ;” and (ver. 25), “righteous Fatner.”_ Christ
leads that attribute for the performance of God’s word, which was
hid to pawn when he passed his word: for it was by his holiness
that he swore, that “ his seed should endure forever, and his throne
as the sun before him” (Ps. lxxxix. 36); which is meant of the per-
petuity of the covenant which he made with Christ, and is also
meant of the preservation of the mystical seed of David, and the
perpetuating his loving-kindness to t em (ver. 32, 33). Grace is an
image of God’s holiness, and, therefore, the holiness of God is most
proper to be   as an argument to interest and engage him in the
preservation of it. In the midst of churclgprovocations, he will
not utterly extinguish, because he is the “ oly One” in the midst
of her (Hos. xi. 9): nor in the midst of `udgments will he condemn
his _people to death, because he i  “their iiloly One” (Hab. i. 12); but
their enemies shall be ordained for judgment, and established for
correction. One prophet assures them in the name of the Lord,

