190 cnimrroox on 'nm ATTRIBUTES.
upon the strength of this perfection; and the other, upon the same
ground, is contident of the protection of the church, because of
od’s holiness engaged in an mviolable covenant.
° 8. Cbmfort. Since holiness is a glorious perfection of the nature
of God, “he will certainly value every holy soul." It is of a.
greater value with him than the souls of all men in the world, that
are destitute of it: “ wicked men are the worst of vilenesses,” mere
dross and dunghill! Purity, then, which is contrary to wickedness,
must be the most recious thing in his esteem; he must needs love
that quality whicli)he is most pleased with in himself, as a father
looks with most delight upon the child which is possessed with those
dis ositions he most values in his own nature. “His colmtenance
dofh behold the upright" (Ps. xi. 7). He looks upon them with a
hill and open face of favor, with a countenance clear, unmasked, and
smiling with a face full of delight. Heaven itself is not such a
pleasing object to him as the image of his own uncreated holiness in
the created holiness of men and angels: as a man esteems that most
which is most like him, of his own neration, more than a piece of
art, which is merely the product oige his wit or strength. And he
must love holiness in the creat1u°e, he would not else love his own
image, and, consequently, would undervalue himself He despiseth
the image the wicked bears (Ps. lxxiii. 20), but he cannot disesteem
his own stamp on the godly; he cannot but delight in his own
Work, his choice work, the master-piece of all his works, the new
creation of things; that which is next to himself, as being a Divine
nature like hiinself (2 Pet. i. 4). When he overlooks strength, parts,
knowledge, he cannot overlook this: he “sets apart him that is
godly for himself” (Ps. iv. 3), as a peculiar object to take pleasure
m; e reserves such for his own complaceny, when he leaves the
rest of the world to the devil’s ower; he is choice of them above
all his other works, and will not l)et any have so great a proprietyin
them as himself If it be so dear to him here in its imperfect and
mixed condition, that he appropriatea it as a peculiar object for his
own delight, how much more will the unstpotted purity of glorified
saints be infinitely pleasing to him! so, t at he will take less plea-
sure in the material eavens than in such a soul. Sin only is detest-
able to God; and when this is done away, the soul becomes as lovely
in his account, as before it was loathsome.
4. It is comfort, upon this account, that “ God will erfect holi-
ness in every ulpright soul." We many times distrust god, and de-
spond in curse ves, because ofthe infinite holiness of the Divine na-
ture, and the dunghill corruption in our own; but the holiness of
God engageth him to the preservation of it, and, consequently, to
the perfection of it, as apipears by our Saviour’s argument ( ohn
xvii. 11), “Holy Father, eep through thy own' name, those whom
thou hast given me ;”--to what end ?-“ that they may be one as we
are;” one with us, in the resemblances of plmty. And the holi-
ness of the soul is used as an argument bly the Psalmist (Ps. lxxxvi.
2), “Preserve my soul, for I am holy ;” t at is, I have an ardent de-
sire to holiness: thou hast separate me from the mass of the cor-
°P|.xii.8. Thevllestmeu.

