ON ma Honnvnss or con. 191
ruptcd world, preserve and perfect me with the assembly of the
gklorified choir. The more holy any are, the more communicative
t ey are; God being most holy, is most communicative of that
which he most esteems in himself, and delights to see in his crea-
ture: he is, therefore, more ready to impart his holiness to them that
beg for it, than to communicate his knowledge or his power.
Though he were holy, yet he let Adam fall, who never petitioned
his holiness to preserve him; he let him fall, to declare the holiness
of his own nature, which had wanted its due manifestation without
it: but since that cannot be declared in a higher manner than it
hath been already in the death of the Surety, that bore our guilt,
there is no fear he should cast the work out of his hands, since the
design of the permission of man’s afplcistasy, in the discove of the
pelivtions of his nature, has been ly answered. The “ldvnishing
the g od work he hath begun,” hath a relation to the glory of
Christ; and his own glory in Christ to be manifested in the day of
his appearing (Phil. i. 6), wherein the glory, both of his own holi-
ness, and the holiness of the Mediator, are to receive their full man-
ifestation. As it is a part of the holiness of Christ to “sanctify his
church" (E h. v. 26, 27) till not a wrinkle or spot be left, so itisthe
part of   not to leave that work im rfect which his holiness
ath atte1.1p"d a second time to beautif   creature with. He will
not cease exzltin this attribute, whicliy is the believers’ by the
new covenant, 6% he utters that applauding speech of his own
work (Cant. iv. 7), “Thou art all fair, my love; there is no spot
in thee."
Use 3, is for Exhortation. Is holiness an eminent perfection of
the Divine nature? then-
Ewslurrt. 1. Let us get and reserve ` ht and strong apprehensions
of this Divine perfection. lgithout dvldue sense of it, we can never
exalt God in our hearts; and the more distinct conceptions we have
of this, and the rest of his attributes, the more we lorify him.
When Moses considered God as “his strength and salvation,” he
would exalt him (Exod. xv. 2); and he could never break out in so
admirable a doxology as that m the text, without a deep sense of
the glo of his p1u'ity, which he speaks of with so much admira-
tion. glchasensewillbeofusetous.
1. In promoting genuine convictions. A deep consideration of ‘
the hclfness of God cannot but be followed with a deep considera-
tion cf' -nu' impure and miserable condition by reason of sin: we
oannfu §3l;`¥l(>6 upon it without reflections upon our own vileness.
Adare no _'Honor heard the voice of a holy God in the garden, but
he c1.:.sid:x\»-f his own nakedness with shame and fear (Gen. iii. 10);
much lm --a .- we fix our minds upon it, but we must be touched
with a sense U, our own uncleanness. The clear beams of the sun
discover tim slithiness in our garments and members, which was not
visible in tl-ff -larkness of the night. Impure metals are discerned
b conrparsrg then; with that which is pure and perfect in its kind.
The sgzi;-u <4 guilt is the first natural result upon a sense of this ex-
oelle tperfection; and the sense of»the imperfection of our own
righteousnms is the next. Who can think of it, and neflect upon

