192 cmmsocz ON mn Arrnmurns.
himself as an object Ht for Divine love? Who can have a due
thought of it, without reglarding himself as stubble before a. consum-
ing ire? Who can, wit out a confusion of heart and face, glance
upon that pure e e which beholds with detestation the foul mote;
as well as the filthier and bigger spots? When Isaiah saw his glory,
and heard how highly the angels exalted God for this perfection, he
was in a cold sweat, ready to swoon, till a Seraphim, with a coal from
the altar, both purged and revived him (Isa. vi. 5, 7). They are
sound and glenuine convictions, which have the prospect of Divine
purity for t eir immediate spring, and not a foresight of our own
misery; when it is not the punishment we have deserved, but the
holiness we have offended, most grates our hearts. Such convic-
tions are the first rude draughts of the Divine im in our spirits,
and grateful to God, because they are an acknoilgzdgment of the
glory of this attribute, and the nrst mark of honor given to i: by
the creat1.u°e. Those that never had a sense of their own vileness,
were always destitute of a sense of God’s holiness. And, b the
way, we may observe, that those that scoff at any for hanging drown
the head under the consideration and conviction of sin (as is too
usual with the world), scoff at them for having deeper appre-
hensions of the purity of God than themselves, and conse'~'1ently
make a mock of the holiness of God which is the grouful of those
convictions; a sense of this would prevent such a uamnable re-
proaching. _
2. A sense of this will render us humble in the ossession of the
greatest holiness a creature were capable of WI; are apt to be
proud, with the Pharisee, when we look u on others wallowing in
the mire of base and unnatural lusts: but lI;t_any clap their win
if they can, in a. vain boasting and exaltation, when they view gd
holiness of God. What torch, if it had reason, would be proud, and
swagger in its own li ht, if it compared itself with the sun? “Who
can stand before thisioly Lord God ?" is the just reflection of the
holiest person, as it was of theses; Sam. vi. 20) that had felt the
marks of his jealousy after their loo ing into the ark, tholegh likely
out of affection to it, and triumphant joy at its return. hen did
the an els testify, by the covering of their faces, their weakness to
bear the lustre of his majesty, ‘but when they beheld his glory ?
When did they signify, by their covering their feet, the shame of
their own vileness, but when their hearts were fullest of the applaud-
ings of this perfection (Isa. vi. 2, 321? Though they foun _ them-
selves without spot, yet not with sue a holiness that they ccuid arp-
pear either with their faces or feet unvailed and unmaslsud in t e
presence of God. Doth the immense splendor of this attribute en-
gender shaming reflections in those pure spirits? Why will it, what
should it, do in us, that dwell in houses of clay, and -:recp up and
down with that cla upon our backs, and too muci. =i:' it in our
hearts? The stars themselves, which ap ear beautiiul in the night,
are masked at the awaking of the sun. What a_dim ligl 1 is what of
a glow-worm to that of the sun! The apprehensions oi' this made
the elders' humble themselves in the midst of their glory by '° tast-
ingpdown their crowns before his throne” £Rev. iv. 8, O), a metaq

