ON 'rnn nonnmss or con. 193
phor taken from the triumphing generals among the Romans, who
ung up their victorious laurels in the Capitol, dedicating them to
their gods, acknowledging them their superiors in strength, and au-
thors of their victory. This self-emptiness at the consideration of
Divine urity, is the note of the true church, represented by the
twenty-fiiur elders, and a note of a true member of the church ;
whereas boasting! of perfection and merit is the property of the anti-
christian tribe, t at have mean thoughts of this adorable perfection,
and think themselves more righteous than the unspotted angels.
What a self-annihilation is there in a good man, when the sense of
Divine urity is most lively in him! yea, how detestable is he to
himself?) There is as little proportion between the holiness of the
Divine Majesty, and that of the most righteous creature, as there is
between a nearness of a person that stands upon a mountain, to the
sun, and of him that beholds him in a vale; one is nearer than the
other, but it is an advantage not to be boasted of, in regard of the
vast distance that is between the sun and the elevated spectator.
3. This would make us full of an affectionate reverence in all our
approaches to God. B this perfection God is rendered venerable,
and tit to be reverenced’ b his creature; and magnificent thoughts
of it in the creature wouldy awaken him to an actual reverence of the
Divine majesty (Ps.   9): “ Holiy and reverend is his name ;” a
good opinion of this would engen er in us a sincere respect towards
im; we should then “serve the Lord with fear,” as the ex ression
is (Ps. ii. 11), that is, be afraid to cast aiaything before him that may
oifend the eyes of his purity. Who woul venture rashly and garishly
into the presence of an eminent moralist, or of a righteous king upon
his throne? The fixedness of the angels arose from the continual
prospect of this. What if we had been with Isaiah when he saw the
vision, and beheld him in the same glory, and the heavenly choir in
their reverential posture in the service of God; would it not have
barred our wanderings, and staked us down to our duty? Would
not the fortifying an idea of it in our minds produce the same effect?
It is for want of this we carry ourselves so loosely and unbecoming-
lv in the Divine presence, with the same, or meaner, affections than
those wherewith we stand before some vile creature that is our supe-
rior in the world; as though a piece of filthy flesh were more valua-
ble than this perfection of the Divinity. How doth the Psalmist
double his exhortation to men to sing praise to God (Ps. xlvii. 6);
“Sing praises to God, sing praises; sing praises unto our King, sin
raises ;” because of his majesty, and the purity of his dominion I and
(iver. 8% “ God rei eth over the heathen, God sitteth upon the throne
of his oliness.” Qow would this elevate us in praise, and rostrate
us in prayer, when we praise and pray with an understanding and
insight of that nature we bless or implore; as he speaks (ver. 7),
“Sing ye praises with understanding.” The holiness of Go in his
government and dominion, the holiness of his nature, and the holi-
ness of his precepts, should beget in us an humble respect in our
approaches. The more we grow in a sense of this, the more shall
we advance in the true performance of all our duties. Those nations
which adored the sun, had they at first seen his brightness wrapped
vor. rr.-13

