194 , ciunivoox ON mn nrnmurrs.
and masked in a cloud, and paid a veneration to it, how would their
adorations have mounted to a greater point, after they had seen it
in its full brightness, shaking o those vails, and chasing away the
mists before xt! what a profound reverence would the have paid it,
when they beheld it in its glory and meridian brigiitnessib Our
reverence to God in all our addresses to him will arrive to greater
degrees, if ever act of duty be ushered in, and seasoned with the
thoughts of God’ as sitting upon a throne of holiness; we shall have
a more becoming sense of our own vileness, a greater ardor to his
service, a deeper respect in his presence, if our understandin be
more cleared, and ossessed with notions of this perfection. '¥hus
take a view of God in this part of his glory, before you fall down
before his throne, and assure yourselves you will ‘dad your hearts
and services quickened with a new and lively spirit.
4. A due sense of this perfection in God would produce in us a
fear of God, and arm us ainst temptation and sin. What made
the heathen so wanton anad loose, but the representations of their
gpds as vicious? Who would stick at adulteries, and more pro-
`gious lusts, that can take a pattern for them from the person he
adores for a deity? Upon which account Plato would have poets
banished from his commonwealth, because, by dressing ep their gods
in wanton garbs in their poems, they encouraged wie e ness in the
people. But if the thoughts of G 's holiness were impressed upon
us, we should regard sin with the same eye, mark it with the same
detestation in our measures, as God himself doth. So far as we are
sensible of the Divine purity, we should account sin vile as it de-
serves; we should hate it entirelgfi without a grain of love to it, and
hate it perpetually §Ps. cxix. 1 ): “Through thy gecepts I get
understandin , there ore I hate every false way.” e looks into
God’s statutegnook, and thereby arrives to an understanding of the
“ity of his nature, whence his hatred of iniquity commenced.
's would govern our motion, check our vices; it would make us
tremble at the hissing of a teeréicptation: when a corruption did but
peep out, and put forth its h , a look to the Divine Purity would
e attended with a fresh convoy of strength to resist it. There is no
eiiiph fortigeation, as toGbe1 wrap?d1p[p{)n thgensg of this-: this weuld
uswi anaweof o ;weso eas me 'coadmitan fith
thing into us, which we know is detestable to his pure eye. Asithe ag
preach of a grave and serious man makes children hasten their triiies
out of the way; so would a consideration of this attribute make us cast
away our ido s, and fling away our ridiculous thoughts and designs.
, 5. A due sense of this perfection would inflame us with a vehe-
ment desire to be conformed to Him. All our desires would be ar-
dent to regulate ourselves according to this pattern of holiness, and
gl?-lodnefss, ylvhichhisfnot goalie equalllpd; thesfcontemplatingtlit as it
s 'nes ort inte aceo rist,w` _“tram ormusinto esarne
image” (2_Cor.   19). Since our lapsed state, we cannot behold the
holiness of God in itself without aifnghtment; nor is it an olject of
unitatron, but_as tempered in Christ to our VIEW.. When we cannot,
without blmding ourselves, look upon the sun in its brightness, we
* Amyrald. Moral. Tom. V. p. 462. '

