ON 'run nonnmss or eon. 195
may behold it through a colored glass, whereby the lustre of it is
moderated, without dazzling our eyes. The sense of it will furnish
us with a greatness of mind, that little things will be contemned by
us; motives of a greater alloy would have little influence upon us;
we should have the highest motives to eve duty, and motives of
the same strain which influence the angels dbove. It would chan e
118, not only into an angelical nature, but a divine nature: we should
act like men of another sphere; as if we had received our original
in another world, and seen with angels the ravishin beauties of
heaven. How little would the mean em loyments of the world sink
us into dirt and mud I How often hath tll)e meditation of the courage
of a valiant man, or acuteness and industry of a learned erson,
spurred on some men to an imitation of them, and transformed them
into the same nature! as the looking upon the sun imprints an image
of the sun upon our eye, that we seem to behold nothing but the sun
a while after. The view of the Divine purity would fill us with a
holy generosity to imitate him, more than the examples of the best
men upon earth. It was a sa ‘ing of a heathen, that “if virtue were
visible, it would kindle a noble flame of love to it in the heart, by
its ravishing beauty.” Shall the infinite purity of the Author of l
virtue come short ofthe strength of a creature? Can We not render
that visible to us by frequent meditation, which, though it be invisi-
ble in his nature, is made visible in his law, in his wa s, in his Son?
It would make us ready to obey him, since we know he cannot com-
mand anything that is sinful, but what is holy, just, and good: it
would put all our affections in their due place, elevate them above
the creature, and subject them to the Creator.
6.'It would make us patient and contented under all God’s dispen~
nations. All penal evils are the fruits of his holiness, as he is Judge
and Governor of the world: he is not an arbitrary Judge, nor doth
any sentence pronounced, nor warrant for execution issue from him,
but what bears u n it a stamp of the righteousness of his nature;
he doth nothing li; passion or unrighteousness, but according to the
eternal law of his own unstained nature, which is the rule to him in
his works, the basis and foundation of his throne and sovereign do-
minion (Ps. lxxxix. 14): “Justice/' or righteousness, “and judg-
ment are the habitation of thy throne ;” upon these his sovereign
spwer is established: so that there can be no just complaint or in-
'ctment brought against any of his proceedings with men. How
cloth our Saviour, who had the highest apprehensions of God’s holi-
ness, justify God in his deepest distresses, when he cried, and was
not answered in the particular he desired, in that rophetic Psalm of
him (Ps. xxii. 2, 3), “I cry day and night, but Sion hearest not l”
Thou seemest to be deaf to all my petitions, afar off “from the words
of my roaring; but thou art holy; ’ I cast no blame upon thee : all
thy dealings are squared by thy holiness: this is the only law to
thee; in this I ae uiesce. It is part of thy holiness to hide thy face
from ine, to show (dhereby thy dctcstation of sin. Our Saviour adores
the Divine purity in his sharpest agony, and a like sense of it would
guide us in the same ste s to acknowled e and glorify it, in om
greatest desertions and a&ictions; especially since as they are the

