196 cru.RNocx ON 'ma amnrnuras.
fruit of the holiness of his nature, so they are the means to imparttn
us clearer stamps of holiness, according to that in himself, which is
the original copy (Heb. xii. 10). He melts us down as gold, to fit UI
rbr the receiving a new impression, to mortify the affections of the
tlesh, and clothe us with the graces of his Spirit. The due sense of
this would make us to submit to his stroke, and to wait upon him
for a ood issue of his dealin .
Ecllort. 2. Is holiness a pegdetion of the Divine nature? Is it the
glory of the Deity l’ Then let us glorif this holiness of God. Mo-
ises glorifies it in the text, and gloriiiyes it in a song, which was a
copy for all ages. The whole corporation of seraphims have their
mouths filled_with the praises of it. The saints, whether militant on
earth, or triumphant in heaven, are to continue the same acclania-
iion, “ Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of hosts” (Rev. iv. 8). Neither
angels nor gloriiied spirits exalt at the same rate the power which
>brmed them creatures, nor goodness which reserves them in a
blessed immortality, as they do holiness, which gney bear some beams
of in their own nature, and whereby the are ca acitated to stand
before His throne. U on the account of this, a delit of praise is de-
manded of all rational)creatu-res by the Psalmist (Ps. xcix. 3);Y“ Let
them praise thy great and terrible name, for it is hol .” ot so
much for the greatness of his Majesty, or the treasures oil’ his justice;
but as they are considered in conjunction with his holiness, which
renders them beautiful; “ for it is holy." Grandeur and majest ,
simlply in themselves, are not objects of praise, nor do they'merit tile
acc amations of men, when destitute of righteousness : this only ren-
ders everyéiing else adorable ; and this adorns the Divine greatness
with an amiableness (Isa. xii. ad): “Great is the Holy One of Israel
in the midst of thee ;’ and m 'es his might worthy of praise (Luke
i. 49). In honoring this, which is the soul and spirit of all the rest,
we give a glory to all the perfections which constitute and beautify
his nature: and without t e glorifying this we glorify nothing of
them, though we should extol every other single attribute a thousand
times. He values no other adoration of his creatures, unless this be
interested, nor accepts anything as a glory from them (Lev. x. 3)
“I will be sanctifie in them that come near me, and I will be glori-
fied:” as if he had said, In manifestingcmy name to be holy, you
truly, you only honor nie. And as the ripture seldom speaks of
this perfection without a particular emphasis, it teaches us not to
think of it without a special elevation of heart: by this act only,
while we are on earth, can we join consort with the angels in heaven ;
he that doth not honor it, deli ht in it, and in the meditation of it.,
hath no resemblance of it; heliath none of the image, that delights
not in the original. Everything of God is glorious, ut this most of
all. If he built the wor d principally for anything, it was for the
communication of his goodness, and display of his holiness. He
formed the rational creatine to manifest his holiness ir. that law
whereby he was to be governed: then deprive not God of the design
of his own glory. We honor this attribute,
1. When we make it the ground of our love to God. Not be-
cause he is gracious to us, but holy in himselfl As God honors it,

