ON rm: noL1NEss or GOD. 197
m loving himself for it, we should honor it, by itching our affections
upon him chiefly for it. What renders God) amiable to himself;
should render him lovely to all his creatures glsa xlii. 21): “ The
Lord is well pleased for his righteousness’ sake. ’ If the hatred of
evil be the immediate result o a love to God, then the peculiar ob-
ject or term of our love to God, must be that perfection which stands
in direct opposition to the hatred of evil (Ps. xcvii. 10): “Ye that
love the Lord, hate evil.” When we honor his holiness in every
stamp and impression of it: his law, not principallfy because of its
usefulness to us, its accommodateness to the order o the world, but
for its innate purity; and his people, not for our interest in them, so
much as for bearing upon them this glittering mark of the Deity, we
honor then the purity of the Lawgiver, an the excellency of the
Sanctifier.
2. We honor it, when we regard chiefly the illustrious appearance
of this in his jud ents in the world. In a case of temporal judg-
ment, Moses celeliiiates it in the text; in a case of spiritual judg-
ments, the angels applaud it in Isaiah. All his severe proceedings
are nothin but the strong brcathings of this attribute. Purity is
the flash 0? his reven 'ng sword. If he did not hate evil, his ven-
geance would not reacil the committers of it. He is a “ re‘dner’s fire”
in the day of his anger (Mal. iii. 2). By his separating judgments,
“he takes away the w' ked of the earth like dross” (Ps. cxix. 119).
How is his holiness gmored, when we take notice of his sweepin
out the rubbish of the world ; how he suits punishment to sin, and
discovers his hatred of the matter and circumstances of the evil, in
the matter and circumstances of the judgment. This perfection is
legible in every stroke of his sword; we honor it when we read the
syllables of it, and not by standin amazed only at the greatness and
severity of the blow, when we reai how holy heis in his most terri~
ble dispensations: for as in them God magmfies the greatness of his
power, so he sanctifies himself; that is, declares the purity of his na-
ture as a revenger of all impiety (Ezek. xxxviii. 22, 23); “And I
will plead against him with estilence, and with blood: and I will
rain upon him, and upon his bands, and upon the people that are
with him, an overflowing rain and great hailstones; ure, and brim-
stone. Thus will I magnify myself, and sanctify myself”
3. We honor this attribute, when we take notice of it in every
accomplishment of his promise, and every grant of a mercy. His
truth is but a branch of his righteousness, a slipefrom this root. He
is glorious in holiness in the account of Moses, cause he “led forth
his people whom he had redeemed” (Exod. xv. 1153); his eople by a
covenant with their fathers, being the God of oses, £e God of
Israel, and the God of their fathers (ver. 2). “My God, and my
father’s God, I will exalt thee.” For what? for his faithfulness to
his promise. The holiness of God, which Mary (Luke i. 49) maffni-
fies, is summed up in this, the help he afforded his servant Israel in
the “remembrance of his mercy, as he spake to our fathers, to
Abraham and his seed forever” (ver. 54, 55). The certainty of his
covenant mercy depends u on an unchangeableness of his holiness.
What are “sure mercies,” (lea lv. 3), are holy mercies in the Septuxv

