198 CHLRNOCK on 'rua nrarnurss.
Ent, and in Acts xiii. 84, which makes that 'translation canonical
, is nearness to answer us, when we call upon him for such mercies,
is a fruit of the holiness of his name and nature (Ps. clxv. 17  “The
Lord i  holy in all his works; the Lord is nigh to all them that call
upon him.” Hannah, after a return of prrziyer, sets a particular mark
upon this, in her song (1 Sam. ii. 2); “ here is none holy as the
Lord ;” separated from all dross, firm to his covenant, and righteous
in it to his suppliants, that confide in him, and plead his word.
When we observe the workings of this in every return of prayer,
we honor it; it is a sign the mercy is really a return of prayer, and
not a mercy of course, bearing upon it eng the characters of a com-
mon provi ence. This was the perfection avid would bless, for the
catalogue of mercies in Ps. ciii. 1, &c.; “Bless his holy name." Cer-
tainly, one reason why sincere prayer is so delightful to him, is
because it puts him u on the exercise of this his be oved perfection,
which he so much delighteth to honor. Since God acts in all those
as the governor of the world, we honor him not, unless we take
notice of that righteousness which fits him for a governor, and is the
inward spring of all his motions (Gen. xviii. 2? “Shall not the
Judge o all the earth do right?" It wus his esi in his pity to
Israel, as well as the calamities he intended against ge heathens, to
be “sanctiied in them; that is, declared hol in his merciful as well
as his judicial procedure (Ezra xxxvi. 21, 2g), Hereby God credits
his righteousness, which  eemed .to be forgotten by the one, and con-
temned by the other;° he removes, by this, all suspicion of unfaith-
fulness in him. \
4. We honor this attribute, when we trust his covenant, and
promise against _outward appearances. Thus our Saviour, in the
prophecy of him (Ps. xxii. 2-4), when God seemed to bar up the
gates of his palace against the entr of any more petitions, this attri-
ute proves the support of the Redreemefs soul; “But thou art holy,
O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel :” as it refers to what goes
before, it has been twice explained; as it refers to what follows, it is
a ground of trust; “Thou inhabitest the praises of Israel :” thou hast
had the raises of Israel for many ages, for thy holiness. How?
“Our fathers trusted in thee, and thou didst deliver them ;” th
honored thy holiness by their trust, and thou didst honor their  
by a deliverance; thou always hadst a purity that would not shame
nor confound them. I will trust in thee as t ou art holy, and expect
the breaking out of this attribute for my good as well as my prede-
cessors; “ Om* fathers trusted in thee,” &c.
- 5. We honor this attribute, when we show a greater affection to
the marks of his holiness-in times of the greatest contempt of it. As
the Psalmist (Ps. cxix. 126, 127); “ They have made void thy law,
therefore I love thy commandments above gold ;" while they spun:
at the purity of thy law, I will value it above the gold they possess;
I will esteem it as gold, because others count it as dross; y their
scorn of it, my love to it shall be the warmer; and my hatred of ini-
quity shall be the sharper: the disdain of others should inflame us
with a zeal and fortitu e to appear in behalf 'of his despised honor
° Sunot. in loc.

