ON THE nonmsss or Gen. 199
We honor this holiness many other ways; by prepaxation for our
addresses to him, out of a sense of his purity; when we imitate it:
as He honors us by “teaehin us his statutes’ (Ps. cxix. 135), so wc
honor him by learning and observing them. When we beg of him
to show himself a refiner of us, to make us more conformable to him
in holiness, and bless him for any communication of it to us, it ren-
ders us beautiful and lovely in his sight. To conclude: to honor it,
is the way to engafre it for us; to give it the glory of what it hath
done, by the arm of; power for our rescue from sin, and beating down
our corruptions at his feet, is the way to see more of its marvellous
works, and behold a clearer brightness. As unthankfulness makes
him withdraw his grace (Rom. i. 21, 24), so glorifying him causes
him in impart it. God honors men in the same way they honor
him; when we honor him b acknowledging his purity, he will
honor us by communicating of? it to us. This is the way to derive a
greater excellency to our souls. T
Eahort. 3. Since holiness is an eminent erfection of the Divine
nature, let us labor after a conformity to God) in this perfection. The
nature of God is presented to us in the Scripture, both as a attern
to imitate, and a motive to persuade the creat1u°e to holiness (Il John
iii. 3; Matt. v. 48; Lev. xi. 44; 1 Pet. i. 15, 16). Since it is, there-
fore, the nature of God, the more our natures are beautified with it,
the more like we are to the Divine nature. It is not the pattern of
angels, or archangels, that our Saviour, or his apostle, proposeth for
our imitation; but the original of all purity, God himself; the same
that created us, to be imitated by us. l\or is an equal degree of
purity enjoined us; though we are to be pure, and erfect, and mer-
ciful as God is, et not essentially so; for that would] be to command
us an impossibility in itself; as much as to order us to cease to be
creaturesfand commence gods. No creature can be essentially holy
but byaparticipation from the chief Fountain of Holiness; but we
must ve the same kind of holiness, the same truth of holiness. As
a short line may be as straight as another, though it arallel it not
in the immense _length of it; a copy may have the l£eness of the
original, though not the same perfection; we cannot be good, with-
out eyeing some exempxlar of gioodness as the pattern. No pattern
is so suitable as that w ich is t e highest goodness and pmity. That
limner that would draw the most excellent iece, fixes his eyes upon
the most perfectdpattern. He that would he a good orator, or poet,
or artificer, consi ers some person most excellent in each kind, as
the object of his imitation. Who so fit as God to be viewed as the
pattern of holiness, in our intendment of, and endeavor after holi-
ness? The Stoics, one of' the best sects of philosophers, advised their
disciples to pitch ulpon some eminent example of virtue, according
to w ich to form t eir lives; as Socrates, &c. But true holiness doth
not only endeavor to live the life of a ood man, but chooses to live
a divine life; as before the man was “alienated from the life of God”
(E h. iv. 19), so, upon his return, he aspires after the life of God. To
endeavor to be like a good man is to make one image like another;
to set our clocks by other clocks, without regarding the sun: but
true holiness consists in a likeness to the most exact sampler. God

