200 cmnnocx ON rss Arrnmurrs.
being the first purity, is the rule as well as the spring of all dpunty
in the creature, the c ief and Bret object of imitation. We isown
ourselves to be his creatures, if we breathe not after a resemblance to
him in what he is imitable. There was in man, as created according
to God’s image, a natural appetite to resemble God: it was at Hrst
planted in him by the Author of his nature. The devil’s temptation
of him by that motive to transgress the law, had been as an arrow
shot against a brazen wall, had there not been a desire of some like-
ness to his Creator engraven upon him §Gen. iii. 5); it would have
had no more influence upon him, than it could have had upon a
mere animal. But man mistook the term; he would have been like
God in knowledge, whereas, he should have aifected a greater resem-
blance of him in purity. O that we could exemplify God in our
nature I Precepts may mstruct us more, but examp es affect us more;
one directs us, but the other attracts us. What can be more attrac-
tive of our imitation, than that which is the ori inal of all purity,
both in men and angels? This conformity to   consists in an
imitation of him,
1. In his law. The luity of his nature was first visible in this
lass; hence, it is called) a “ oly” law (Rom. vii. 12); a “pure” law
Ps. xix. 8). Holy and p\u‘e, as it is a ray of the pure nature of the
wgiver. When our lives are a comment upon his law, they are
expressive of his holiness: we conform to his holiness when we regu-
late ourselves by his law, as it is a transcript of his holiness: we do
not imitate it, when we do a. thing in the matter of it agreeable to
that holy rule, but when we do it with res ct to the purity of the
Lawgiver beamin in it. If it be agreeabl); to God’s will, and con-
venient ibr some design of our own, and we do anything only with
a respect to that design, we make not God’s holiness discovered in
the law our rule, but our own conveniency: it is not a conformity to
God, but a, conformity of our actions to se# As in abstinence from
intemperate courses, not because the holiness of God in his law hath
prescribed it, but because the health of our bodies, or some noble
contentments of life, require it; then it is not God’s holiness that is
our rule, but our own security, conveniency, or something else which
we make a God to ourselves. It must be a. real conformity to the
law: our holiness should shine as really in the practice, as God’s
purity doth in the precept. God hath not a pretence of piuity in his
nature, but a. reality: it is not only a sudden boiling up of an admi-
ration of him, or a starting wish to be like him, from some sudden
impression upon the fancy, which is a mere temporary blaze, but a.
settled temper of soul, loving everiything that is like him, doin
things out of a firm desire to resemb e his purity in the copy he hath
set; not a resting in negatives, but aspiring to positives; holy and
harmless are distinct things: they were distinct qualifications in our
Eigh Priest in his obedience to t e law (Heb. vii. 26), so they must
e in us.
2. In his Christ. As the law is the transcript, so Christ is the
image of his holiness: the glory of God is too dazzling to be beheld
by us: the acute eye of an angel is too weak to look u n that
bright sun without covering his ace: we -are much too weak() to take

