ON 'mn Homsnss or con. 201
our measures from that urity which is infinite in his nature. But
he hath made his Son i£e us, that by the imitation of him in that
temper, and shadow of human flesh, we may arrive to a resemblance
of him (2 Cor. iii. 18 . Then there is a conformity to him, when
that which Christ di is drawn in lively colors in the soul of a Chris-
tian; when, as he died u on the cross, we die to our sins; as he rose
from the grave, we rise Rom our lusts; as he ascended on high, we
mount our souls thither; when we express in our lives what shined
in his, and exemplify in our hearts what he acted in the world, and
become one with him, as he was separate from sinners. 'l‘he holiness
of God in Christ is our ultimate pattern: as we are not only to be-
lieve in Christ, but “ by Christ in God” (John xiv. 1), so we are not
only to imitate Christ, but the holiness of God as discovered in Christ.
And, to enforce this upon us, let us consider,
(1.) It is this onéy wherein he commands our imitation of him. We
are not commande to be mighty and wise, as God is mighty and wise:
but “ be holy, as I am holy.” The declarations of his power are to
enforce om' subjection; those of his wisdom, to encourage our direc-
tion by him; but this only to attract our imitation. When he saith,
“I am holy,” the immediate inference he makes, is, “Be ye so too,”
which is not the proper instruction from any other perfection! Man
was created by Divine po\ver, and harmonized by Divine wisdom, but
not aft/er them, or according to them, as the true image; this was the
prerogative of Divine holiness, to be the pattern of his rational crea-
ture :U wisdom and power were subscrvientto this, the one as the pencil,
the other as the hand that moved it.- The condition of a creature is
too mean to have the communications of the Divine essence; the true
impressions of his righteousness and goodness we are only capable of
It is only in those moral erfections we are said to resemb e God. The
devils, those impure andp ruined spirits, are nearer to him in strength
and knowledge than we are; yet in regard of that natural and intel-
lectual perfection, never counted like him, but at the greatest dis-
tance from him, because at the greatest distance from his purity.
God values not a natural miffht, nor an acute understanding, nor
vouchsafes such pertections the glorious title of that of his image.
Plutarch saith, God is angry with those that imitate his thunder or
lightning, his works of majesty, but delighted with those that imitate
his virtuef In this onl we can never incur anv ,rc roof from him,
but for falling short of liim and his glory. Had Adhm endeavored
after an imitation of this, instead of that of Divine kno\vledge, he
had escaped his fall, and preserved his standing; and had Lucifer
wished himself like God in this, as well as his dominion, he had
still been a glorious angel, instead of being now a ghastly devil: to
reach after a union with the Supreme Being, in regard of holiness,
is the only generous and commendable ambition.
(2.) This is the prime way of honoring God. lVe do not so glorify
God by elevated admirations, or eloquent expressions, or pompous
services of him, as when we aspire to a conversing with im with
unstained spirits, and live to him in living like him. The angels are
4 " lu this,” saith Pluto, “ God is év [IQIUU 1rap¢2z5ezy,ua. ° Eph. iv. 24. Col. iii. 10
‘ Eugub. inde Perenni Philoso. lib. vi. cap. 6.

