202 cnsmrocx on 'ma A'1'.l‘B.IBU'1‘ES.
not called holy for applauding his purity, but conforming to it. The
B”.‘;§§’°'§Z°$0?§X   i';§?;‘l2,iR13“§‘§§n‘;§”3§"“GZ‘1f f”3°§;2I;‘l‘§
1' i
angel or man, than a mere animal; because there are in such clearer
characters of Divine power and goodness, than in those that are in-
ferior. The more perfect _any creatine is morally, the more is God
gloriiied by that creatine; it is a real declaration, t at God is the best
and most amiable Being; that nothing besides him is valuable, and
worth to be object of our imitation. It is a greater honoring of
him, than the highest acts of devotion, and the most religious bodily
exercise, or the singing this song of Moses in the text, with a trium-
phant s irit; as it is more the honor of a father to be imitated in his
virtues guy his son, than to have all the laverin commendations by
the tongue or n of a vicious and diauched child. B this we
honor him in th; perfection which is dearest to him, ami’ counted
by hun as the chiefest glory of his nature. God seems to accept the
g onfymg this attribute, as if 'it were a real addition to that holiness
which is infinite in his nature, and because infinite, cannot admit of
any increase: and,__therefore, the_word sanctified is usedinstead of
glorified. (Isa. vnu. 18), “Sanct1fy the Lord of Hosts himself and
et him be your fear, and let him be your dread.” And (Isa. xxix.
23), “ They shall sanctify the holy One cf Jacob, and fear the God
of Israel] This sanctiiication of God is by the fear of him, which
signifies in the language of the Old Testament, a reverence of him
and a righteousness be ore him. He doth not say, when he would
have his power or wisdom glorified, Empower me or make me wise;
but when he would have his holiness glorified by the creature, it is,
Sanctify me; that is, manifest the purity of my nature by the holi-
ness of_ your lives: _but he expresseth it in such a term, _as if it were
an addition to this infinite perfection; so acce table it is to him, as
if it were a contribution from his creatlu'e for tie enlar 'ng an attri-
bute so pleasing to him, and so_ glorious in his e(ye._ §1is,_as much
as in the creatine lies, a reserving the life of Go since this perfec~
tion is his life; and that lie would as soon part with his life as part
with his purity. It keeps up the reputation of God in the world, and
attracts others to a love of him; whereas, unworthy carriages defame
God in the eyes of men, and bring up an ill report of him,_as if he
were such an one as those lthat profess him, an walk uusuitably to
their rofession, a to e.
(3.)PThis is the Eiixhency and beauty of a creature. The title of
“beauty” is given to it in Ps. ex. 8 ;l;beauties,};’ in the plurglrnumber,
as com rehendin it in all other auties w atsoever. hat is a
Divinelexcellencyg cannot be a creature’s deformity : the natural beauty
of it is a representation of the Divinity; and a holy man ought to es
teem himself excellent in being sue in his measureas his God  
and lputs his principahifelipity inlthe posisesksion of lghel same plpxbity in
trut . This is the re ne com exion o t e an t at stan eibre
his throne. The devils lost thgir comeliness wgzn they fell from it.
It was the honor of the human nature of our Saviour, not only to be
united to the Deity, but to be sanctified b it. He was “fairer than
all the children of men,” because he had a holiness above the children

