/
_~ ON 'ran rronmnss or sim. 208
of men : “ grace was poured into his lips” (Ps. xlv. 2). It was the jewel
of the reasonable naturefin paradise: conformity to God was man’s
original happiness in his created state; and what was naturally so,
cannot but be immutably so in its own nature. The beauty of ever
copied thing consists in its likeness to the original; everything hath
more of loveliness, as it hath greater im ressions of its first pattern:
in this regard holiness hath more of Beauty on it than the whole
creation, because it partakes of a. greater excellency of God than the
sun, moon, and stars. No greater glory can be, than to be a con-
Zpicuous and visible image of the invisible, and holy, and blessed
od. As this is the splendor of all the Divine attributes, so it is the
flower of all a christian’s graces, the crown of all religion: it is the
glory of the Spirit. In this regard the king’s daughter is said to be
“all glorious within” (Ps. xlv. 13). It is more excellent than the
soul itself; since the greatest soul is but a deformed piece without it:
a “ diamond without lustre."8 What are the noble faculties of the
soul without it, but as a curious rusty watch,.a delicate heap of dis-
order and confusion? It is im ossible there can be beauty where there
are a multitude of “spots and) wrinkles” that blemish a countenance
(Eph. v. 27). It can never be in its true brightness but when it is
perfect in purity; when it regains what it was possessed of' by crea-
tion, and dispossessed of by the fall, and recovers its rimitive temper.
We are not so beautiful b being the work of God? as by having a
stamp of God upon us. Worldly greatness may make men honor-
able in the sight of creeping worms. Soft lives, ambitious reaches,
luxurious pleasures, and a pom us religion, render no man excel-
lent and noble in the sight of good: this is not the excellency and
nobility of the Deity which we are bound to resemble; other lines
of a Divine image must be drawn in us to render us truly excel-
lent. V
(4.) It is our life. What is the life of God is truly the life of a
rational creature." The life of the body consists not in the perfection
of its members, and the integrity of its organs; these remain when
the body becomes a carcass; but in the presence of the soul, and its
vigorous animation of every part to perform the distinct offices be-
longing to each of them. T e life of the soul consists not in its
being, or spiritual substance, or the excellency of its faculties of un-
derstanding and will, but in the moral and becoming operations of;
them. The spirit is only “life because of righteousness’ (Rom. viii.;
10). The faculties are turned lgy it, to acquit themselves in their
functions, according to the will o God; the absence of this doth not
only deform the soul, but, in a sort, annihilate it, in regard of its
true essence and end. Grace gives a Christian being, and a want of 1
it is the want ofa true being (1 Cor. xv. 10). When Adam divested
himself of his original righteousness, he came under the force of
the threatening, in regard of a spiritual death; every person is
“morally dead while he lives” an unholy life (1 Tim. v. 6). What
life is to the body, that is righteousness to the spirit; and the greater
measure of holiness it hath, the more of life it hath, because it is in a
I Vaughan pp. 4, 6. \ Amirald. in Heb. pp. 101, 102.

