204 cnsrmocx ON 'rim Arrarsurrzs.
greater nearness, and partakes more full of the fountain of life. Il
not that the most worthy life, which (god makes most account oi;
without which his~life could not be a pleasant and blessed life, but a
life worse than death? What a miserable life is that of the men of
the world, that are carried, with greedy inclinations, to all manner
of unrighteousness, whither their interests or their lusts invite theml
The most beautiful bod is a carcass, and the most honorable person
hath but a brutish life Ps. xlix. 20); miserable creatures when their
life shall be extinct wit out a Divine rectitude, when all other things
will vanish as the shadows of the night at the appearance of the sun l
Holiness is our life.
(5.) It is this only its us for communion with God. Since it is
our beauty and our life, without it what communion can an excellent
God have with deformed creatures; a livin God with dead creatures ‘I
“Without holiness none shall see God” (lib.   14). The creature
m11st be stripped of his unrilgihteousness, or God of his purity, before
the can come together. L' eness is the ground of communion, and
of delight in it: the opposition between (rod and unholy souls is as
great asthatbetween “ ight and darkness” (1 John i. 6). Divine fruition
is not so much by a union of presence as a imion of nature. Heaven
is not so much an outward as an inward life ; the foundation of glory is
laid in race; a resemblance to God is our vital hap iness, without
which Sie vision of God would not be so much as acloudly and shadowy
happiness, but rather a torment than a felicity; unl.ess we be of a
like nature to God, we cannot have a pleasing fruition of him.
Some hilosophers think that if our bodies were of the same nature
with the heavens, of an ethereal substance, the nearness to the sun
would cherish, not scorch us. Were we partakers of a Divine
nature, we might enjoy God with delight; whereas, remaining in
our unlikeness to him, we cannot think of him, and approach to
him without terror. As soon as sin had stri ped man ot the image
of God, he was an exile from the comfortablle presence of God, un-
worthy for God to hold any correspondence with: he can no more
delight in a defiled person t at a. man can take a toad into intimate
converse with him; he would hereby discredit his own nature, and
'ustify our impurity. The holiness of a creature only prepares him
iior an eternal con] unction with God in glory. Enoch’s walking
with God was the cause of his being so soon waited to the place
of a full fruition of him; he hath as much delight in such as in
heaven itself; one is his habitation as well as the other; the one is
his habitation of glory, and the other is the house of his pleasure:
if he dwell in Zion, it must be a “ holy mountain” (Joel iii. 17), and
the members of Zion must be upheld m their rectitude and integrity
before they be “set before the face of God forever" (Ps. xli. 12.)
Such are styled his jewels, his portion, as if he lived upon them, as
a man u(pon his inheritance. As God cannot delight in us, so neither
can we elight in God without it. We must purify ourselves “as
he is pure,” if we extpect to “see him as he is,’ in t e comfortable
lory and beauty o his nature (1 John   2, 3), else the si ht of
Eod would be terrible and troublesome: we cannot be satisfied with
the likeness of God at the resurrection, unless we have a. righteous-

