0N 'rms Homnnss or con. 206
ness wherewith to “behold his face” (Ps. xvii. 15). It is a vain
imagination in any to think that heaven can be a place of happiness
to him, in whose eye the beauty of holinem which fills and adorns it,
is an unlovely thing; or that any can have a satisfaction in that
Divine purity which is loathsome to him in the imitations of it. We
cannot enjoy him, unless we resemble him; nor take any pleasure
in him, if we were with him, without something of likeness to him.
Holiness tits us for communion with God.
(6.) We can have no evidence of our election and adoption with-
out it. Conformit to God, in purity, is the ii-uit of electing love
(Eph. i. 4); ‘5 He hath chosen us that we should be holy.” The
goodness ofthe fruit evidenceth the nature of the root: t is is the
seal that assures us the patent is the authentic grant of the Prince.
Whatsoever is holy, s eaks itself to be from God; and whosoever
is holy, speaks himseltpto belong to God. This is the only evidence
that “ we are born of God” (1 John ii. 29). The subduing our souls
to him, the forming us into a resemblance to himself, is a more cer-
tain sign we belong to him, than if we had, with Isaiah, seen his
glory in the vision, with all his train of angels about him. This
justifies us to be the seed of God, when he hath, as it were, taken a
slip from his own purity, and engratted it in our spirits: he can
never own us for his children without his mark, the stamp of holi-
ness. The devil’s stamp is none of God’s badge. Our spuitual ex-
traction from him is but retended, unless we do things worthy of
so illustrious a birth, and lwcoming the honor of so great a. Father:
what evidence can we else have of any child-like loveto God, since the
proper act of love is to imitate the object of our affections? And that
we ma be in some measure like to God in this excellent perfection.
lst. liet us be often viewing and ruminating on the holiness of
God, especially as discovered in Christ. It is by a believin medi-
tation on him, that we are “changed into the same image” ?2 Cor.
  18). We can think often of nothing that is excellent in the
world, but it draws our faculties to some kind of suitable operation;
and why should not such an excellent idea of the holiness of God in
Christ perfect our understandings, and awaken all the powers of our
souls to be formed to actions worthy of him? A ainter emplo ed
in the limning some excellent piece, has not only his pattern before
his eyes, but his eye frequently upon the gattern, to ssess his
fancy to draw forth an exact resem lance. e that woiilid) express
the image of God, must imprint upon his mind the purity of his
nature; cherish it in his thoughts, that the excellent beauty of it
may pass from his understanding to his affections, and from his aifec-
tions to his practice. How can we arise to a conformity to God in
Christ, whose most holy nature we seldom glance upon, and more
rarely sink our souls into the de ths of it b meditation! Be fre-
quent in the meditation of the holiness of God
2d. Let us often exericse ourselves in acts of love to God, because
of this rfection. The more adoring thoughts we have of God, the
more delightfully we shall aspire to, and more ravishingly catch
after, anything that may promote the more full draught of his
Divine image 1n our hearts. What we intensely affect, we desire to

