\
206 cH.mNocx on THE Arrmsurns.
be as near to as we can, and to be that very thing, rather than our
selves. All imitations of others arise from an intense love to their
persons or excellenc . When the soul is ravished with this perfec-
tion of God, it will desire to be united with it; to have it drawn in
it, more than to have its own being continued to it: it will desire
and delight in its own being, in order to this heavenly and s iritual
work. The impressions of the nature of God upon lt, and die imi-
tations of the nature of God by it, will be more desirable than any
natural perfection whatsoever. The will in lovin is rendered like
the object beloved; is turned into its nature) anmlimbibes its qual~
ities. The soul, by loving God, will Hnd itself more and more trans-
formed into the Divine image; whereas, slighted eusamples are never
thought worthy of imitation.
3d. Let us make God our end. Every man’s mind forms itself to
a likeness to that which it makes its chief end. An earthly soul is
as drossy as-the earth he gapes for; an ambitious soul is as elevated
as the honor he reaches at; the same characters that are upon the
thing aimed at, will be imprinted upon the spirit of him .that aims
at it. When God and his glory are made our end, we shall End a
silent likeness pass in upon us; _the beauty of God will by degrees
enter u on our souls.
4th. ln every deliberate action, let us reflect upon the Divine
purity as a pattern. Let us examine whether anything we are
prompted unto bear an impression of God uplon it; whether it looks
ike a thing that God himself would do in t at case, were he in our
natures an in our circumstances. See whether it hath the livery of
God upon it, how congruous it is to his nature; whether, and in
what manner, the holiness of God can be glorined thereby; and let
us be industrious in all this; for can such an imitation be easy which
is resisted by the constant assaults of the Hesh, which is discouraged
by our own ignorance, and depressed by our faint and languishmg
desires after it? Ol happy we, if there were such a heart in us!
Ezzhort. 4. If holiness be a perfection belonging to the nature of
God ; then, where there is some weak conformitv to the holinem ot
God, let us labor to grow up in it, and breathe alter fuller measures
of it. The more likeness we have to him, the -more love we shall
have from him. Communion will be suitable to our imitation;
his love to himself in his essence, will cast out beams of love to
himself in his ima e. If God loves holiness in a lower measure,
much more will is love it in a higher degree, because then his
ima e is more illustrious and beautiful, and comes nearertothe
lively lineaments of his own infinite purity. Perfection in anything
is more lovely and amiable than imperfection in any state; and the
nearer anything arrives to pierfection, the further are those things
separated from it which mig t cool an affection to it. An increase
in holiness is attended with a manifestation of his love (John my
21): “He that hath m commandments, and keeps them, he it li
that loves me, and he shall be loved of my Father, and I will love
him, and I will manifest myself to him.” It is a. testimony ot' love
to God, and God will not be behind-hand with the creature in kind-
* Amor naturam induit, et morea imbibit rei aunats. '

