ON 'mrs nonnrsss or son. . 207
ness; he loves a holy man for some resemblance to him in his
nature; but when there is an abounding in sanctiied dispositions
suitable to it, there is an increase of favor; the more we resemble
the original, the more shall we enjoy the blessedness of that original:
as any partake more of the Divine likeness, they partake more of
the Divme happiness.
Eazhort. 5. Let us carry ourselves holily, in a spiritual manner, in
all our religious a(pproae es to God (Ps. xeiii. 5); “Holiness becomes
thy house, O Lor , for ever.” This attribute should work in us a
deep and reverential respect to God. This is the reason rendered
why we should “worship at his footstool,” in the lowest posture of
humility prostrate before him, beea e “he is holy” (Ps. xcix. 5).
Shoes must be put off from our feet Iaxod. iii. 5), that is, lusts from
our affections, everything that our souls are clogged and bemired
with, as the shoe is with dirt. He is not willing we should
offer to him an impure soul, mired hearts, rotten carcasses, putreiied
in vice, rotten in iziliguity; our services are to be as free from pro-
faneness, as the sae ` ees of the law were to be free from siekliness
or any blemish. Whatsoever is eontrméy to his purity, is _abhorred
by him, and unlovely in his sight' an can meet with no other
success at his hands, but a disdainful turning away both of his eye
and ear (Isa. i. 15); Since he is an immense purity, he will reject
from his presence, and from having any communion with him, all
that which is not conformable to him; as light chases away the
darkness of the night, and will not mix with it. If we “stretch
out” our “hands towards him,” we must “put ini nity far away
from us” (Job xi. 13, li); the fruits of all service wih e se drop ofl
to nothing. “Then sh l the oifering of Judah and Jerusalem be
pleasant to the Lord”: when? when the heart is purged 'hy Christ
sitting as a “purifier of silver” (Mal. iii. 3, 4). Not al me incense
of the Indies ield him so sweet a savor, as one spiritual aut ot' wor-
ship from a heart estranged from the vileness of the 1-orld; and
ravished with an affection to, and a desire of imitating, the pumy of
his nature. `
A Exhofrt. 6. Let us address for holiness to God, the fountain of it.
As he is the author of bodily life in the creature, so he is the author
of his own life, the life of God in the soul. B his holiness he makes
men holy, as the sim by his light enlightens the air. He is not only
the Holy One, but our Holy One (Isa. xliii. 15); “The Lord that
sanctilies us” (Levit. xx. 8). As he hath mercy to pardon us, so he
hath holiness to purify us, the exeelleney of being a sun to comfort
us, and a shield to roteet us, giving “grace and glory” (Ps. lxxivi
11). Grace whereh we may have communion with him to our
comfort, and strength against our spiritual enemies for our defence;
grace as our Qneparatory to glory, and grace growing up till it ripen
m gloaiiy. e onldy can mould us into a Divine frame; the great
origi can only erive the exeellency of his own nature to us. We
are too low, too lame, to lift up ourselves to it; too much in love
with our own deformity, to admit of this beauty without a heavenly
power inclining our desires for it, our affections to it, our willingness
to be partakers of it. He can as soon set the beauty of holiness in

