208 . cnsmrocx ox THE Armrnurrs.
a deformed heart, as the beauty of harmony in a confused mam
when he made the world. He can as soon cause the light of purity
to rise out of the darkness of corru tion, as frame glorious spirits out
of the insufliciency of nothing. His beauty doth not decay; he
hath as much in himself now as he had in his eternity; he is as
ready to impart it, as he was at the creation; onl we must wait
upon him for it, and be content to have it by smally measures and
degrees. There is no fear of our sanctilication, if we come to him
as a God of holiness, since he is a God of peace, and the bleach
made by Adam is repaired by Christ (1 Thess. v. 23): “ And the
very God of peace sanctify you wholly,” &c. He restores the sanc-
tifying Spirit which was withdrawn by the fall, as he is a God paci-
fied, and his holiness righted by the Redeemer. The beauty of it
appears in its smiles upon a man in Christ, and is as ready to im-
part itself to the reconciled creature, as before justice was to punish
the rebellious one. He loves to send forth the streams of this per-
fection into created channels, more than any else. He did not de-
sign the making* the creature so powerful as he might, because
power is not suc an excellency in his own nature, but as it is con~
ucted and man ed by some other excellency. Power is in-
different, and maynie used well or ill, according as the possessor
of it is righteous or unrighteous. God makes not the creature so
powerful as he might, but he delights to make the creature that
waits upon him as holy as it can be ; beginning it in this world, and
ripening it in the other. It is from him we must expect it, and
from him that we must beg it, and draw arguments from the holi~
ness of his nature, to move him to work holiness in our spirits; we
cannot have a stronger plea. Purity is the favorite of his own na-
ture. anti delights itself in the resemblances of it in the creature.
Let us also o to God, to preserve what he hath already wrought
and impaneg. As we cannot attain it, so we cannot maintain it
without him. God gave it Adam, and he lost it; when God give!
it us, we shall lose it without his influencing and preserving grace;
the channel will be without a stream, if the fountain do not bubble
it forth; and the streams will vanish, if the fountain doth not con-
stantly supply them. Let \1s apply ourselves to him for holiness, 33
he is a God gloriousin holiness; by this we honor God, and nfl-
vantage ourselves.

