DISCOURSE XII.
ON THE GOODNESS OF ern.
Kin x. 18.-And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none
good but one, that is, God.
THE words are part of a reply of our Saviour to the young man’s
pgtition to him: a certain person came in haste, “running” as
ing eager for satisfaction, to entreat his directions, what he s iould
do to inherit everlasting life; the person is described only in general
(ver. 17), “There came one,” a certain man: but Luke describes
him by his dignity (Luke xviii. 18), “A certain ruler;” one of au-
thority amopg the Jews. He desires of him an answer to a legal
question, “ hat he should do?" or, as Matthew hath it, “What
glood thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life” (Matt. xix. 16){?
e imagined everlasting felicity was to be purchased by the wor s
ofthe law; he had not the least sentiments of faith: Christ’s answer
implies, there was no hopes of the happiness of another world by
the works of the law, unless they were perfect, and answerable to
every divine precepts. He doth not seem to have any ill, or hy o-
critical intent in is address to Christ; not to tempt him, gut
to be instructed by him. He seems to come with an ardent desire,
to be satisfied in his demand; he performed a solemn act of respect
to him, he kneeled to him, yf»»»v1wjoa;, prostrated himself upon the
ground; besides, Christ is said (ver. 21) to love him, which had been
mconsistent with the knowledge Christ had of the hearts and
thoughts of men, and the abhorrence he had of hyipocxites, had he
been only acounterfeit in this question. But the rst reply Christ
makes to him, res ects the title of “Good Master,” which this ruler
gave him in his salutation.
lst, Some think, that Christ hereby would draw him to an ac-
knowledgment of him as God; you acknowledge me “good ;” how
come you to salute me with so great a title, since you do not afford
it to your greatest doctors? L1ghtfoot,in loc. observes, that the title
of Rabbi bone is not in all the Talmud. You must own me to be
God, since you own me to be “ good:” goodness being a title only
due, and properly belonging, to the Supreme Being. If you take
me for a common man, with what conscience can you salute me in
a manner properto God? since no man is “good” no, not one, but
the heart of man is evil continually. The rians used this place,
to back their denying the Deity of Christ: because, say they, he
did not acknowledge himself “ good,” therefore he did not acknow-
ledge himself God. But he doth not here deny his Deity, but re-
vox.. u.-14

