210 cmnsocx on rm: nrrnrnurss.
proves him for calling him good, when he had not et confessed
im to be more than a man! You behold my flesh, gut you con-
sider not the fulness of my Deity; if ou account me “good,” ac-
count me God, and imagine me not to he a sim le and a mere man.1
He disowns not his own Deity, but allures the young man to a
confession of it. Why callest thou me good, since thou dost not
discover any apprehensions of my being more than a man? Though
thou comest with a greater esteem tome than is commonly en-
tertained of the doctors of the chair, wh dost thou own me to be
“ good,” unless thou own me to be Goff? If Christ had denied
himself in this ic-:ech to be “g1ood," he had rather entertained this
serson with a own and a s arp reproof for giving him a title
ue to God alone, than have received him with that courtesy
and com laisance as he did.” Had he said, there is none “good
but the gather, he had excluded himself; but in saying, .there is
none “good” but God, he comgirehends himself
2d. Others say, that Christ ad no intention to draw him to an
acknowledgment of his Deity, but only asserts his divine authority
or mission from God. For which interpretation Maldonat calls C -
vin an Arianizernl He doth not here assert the essence of his Deit ,
but the authorit of his doctrine; as if he should have said, You tim
without groundy give me the title of “good,” unless you believe I
have a Divine commission for what I declare and act. Many do think
me an im ostor, an enemy of God, and a friend to devils; you must
firmly bellieve that I am not so, as our rulers report me, but that I
am sent of God., and authorized byliim; you cannot else give me the
title of good, but of wicked. And the reason they give for this in-
tersretation, is, because it is a question, whether any of the apostles
un erstood him, at this time, to be God, which seems to have no
great strength in it; since not only the devil had publicly owned
im to be t e “Hel One of God" (Luke iv. 33, but John the Bap-
tist had borne record, that he was the “ Son of od” (John i. 32, 34);
and before this time Peter had confessed him o enly, in the hearing
of the rest of the disciples, that-he was “the C}hrist, the Son of thu
living God” (Matt. xvi. 16). But I think Paraeus’ inte retation is
best, which takes in both those; either (you are serious orldeceitful in
this address; if you are S€I'l0U-S, why o you call me “good,” and
make bold to 'dx so great a title upon one you have no higher thou hts,
of than a mere man? Christ takes occasion from hence, to assert god
to be only and sovereignly “ ood :” “There is none ood but God.”°
God only hath the honor 0? absolute goodness, and none but God
merits the name of "good," A heathen could say much after the
same manner; All other things are far from the nature of good; call
none else good but God, for this would be a plrofane error: other
things are only good in opinion, hut have not t e true substance of
goodipéesisz he is “ gpod”  aymorc excellent way than any creature
'san enominate “ oo . P
1. God is only oiignall good, good of himself All created
goodness is a rivulet from   fountain, but Divine goodness hath
` 'I Ex-asm. in lac. | Augustin. ' Hensius in Matt. ' Calvin in loe.
° Trismegist. Pmmmnd. cap. 2. V Eugubin. de Peron. Philos. lib. v. cap. U.

