on 'rim Goonmzss or con. 211
no sprin ; God depends upon no other for his oodness; he hath it
in, and oi himself: man hath no goodness from himself; Godhath no
goodness from without himself: his goodness is no more derived from
another than his being: if We were good by any extemal thing, that
thing must be in being before him, or after him; if before him, he
was not then himself from eternity; if after him, he was not good
in himself from eternity. The end of his creating things, then, was
not to confer a goodness upon his creatures, but to partalce of a good~
new from his creatures. God is good by and in himself, since all
things are only good by him; and all that goodnw which is in
creatures, is but t e breathing of his own goodness upon them : they
have all their loveliness from the same hand they have their being
Irom. Though by creation G-od was declared ood, yet he was not
made good by any, or b ' all the creatures. ge partakes of non
but all things partake of him. He is so good, that he `ves all, and
receives nothing; only good, because nothing is good dint by him:
nothing hath a goodness but from him.
2. God only is infinitely good. A boundless goodness that knows
no limits, a goodness as inhnite as his essence, not only good, but
best; not onl good, but goodness itself, the supreme inconceivable
oodness. Ali things else are but little particles of God, small sparks
gem this immense flame, sips of goodness to this fountain. Nothing
that is good by his influence can equal him who is good by himself:
derived goodness can never equal primitive goodness. Divine good-
ness communicates itself to a vast number of creatures in various
de ees; to angels, glorified spirits, men on earth, to eve creature;
andrwhen it hath communicated all that the present world is capable
of, there is still less displayed, than left to enrich another world. All
possible creatures are not capable of exhausting the wealth, the
treasures, that Divine bounty is filled with.
3. God is only perfectly good, because only infinitely good. He
is good without indigence, because he hath the whole nature of good-
ness, not only some beams that may admit of increase of degree.
As in him is the whole nature of entity, so in him is the whole na-
ture of excellency. As nothing hath an absolute perfect being but
God, so nothing hath an absolutely perfect goodness but God; as the
sun hath a pertcction of heat in it, but what is warmed by the sun
is but imperfectly hot, and equals not the sun in that perfection of
heat wherewith it is naturally endued. The gpodness of God is the
measure and rule of goodness in everything e e.
4. God only is immutably good. Other t rings may be perpetually
good by suplcrnatural power, but not immutably good in their own
nature. Ot cr things are not so go but they mayl be bad; God
is so good, that he cannot be bad. It was the speec of a philoso-
her, that it was a hard thing to fin a good man, yea, insipossible °
but though it were possible to find a good man, he woul be good
but for some moment, or a short time: for though he should be good
at this instant, it was above the nature of man to continue in a habit
of goodness, without going awry and warping.!‘Q But “the goodness
of God endureth forever (Ps. lii. 1). God a ays glittfm in good-
‘I Eugubin. de Peron. Philos. lib. v. cap. 9. p?97:`ool.'" "

