I l
212 caunvocx os 'rss Arrarsurrs.
ness, as the sun, which the heathens called the visible image oi the
Divinity, doth with light. There is not such a perpetual light in the
sun as there is a fiilness of goodness in God; “no variableness" in
him, as he is the “Father of Lights” (James i. 17).
Before I come to the doctrine, that is, the chief scope of the words,
some remarks may be made uplon the young man’s question and can
riage: “What must I do to in erit eternal life ?”
1. The opinion of gaining eternal life by the outward observation
of the law, will appear very unsatisfactory to an inquisitive con-
science. This ruler aiiirmed, and certainly did confidentl believ
that he had fulfilled the law (ver. 20): “All this have Iyobserveg
from my youth ;” yet he had not any full satisfaction in his own
conscience; his heart misgave, and started upon some sentiments in
him, that something else was reqluired, and what he had done mi ht
be too weak, too short to shoot eaven’s lock for him. And to that
purpose he comes to Christ, to receive instructions for the piecing u
whatsoever was defective. Whosoever will consider the nature oi?
God, and the relation of a creature, cannot with reason think, that
eternal life was of itself due from God as a recompense to Adam,
had he persisted in a state of innocence. Who can think so great a
reward due, for havin performed that which a creature in that relaf
tion was obliged to dog? Can any man think another obliged to con-
vey an inheritance of a thousand pounds per annum upon his payment
of a few farthings, unless any compact appears to support such a
conceit? And if it were not to be expected in the integrity of na-
ture, but only from the goodness of God, how can it be expected
since the revolt of man, and the universal deluge of natural corrup~
tion? God owes nothing to the holiest creature; what he gives is a
present from his bounty, not the reward of the creature’s merit. And
the apostle defies all creatures, from the greatest to the least, hom
the ta lest angel to the lowest shrub, to brin out any one creature
that hath first 'ven to God (Rom. xi. 35); “ %Vho hath first given
to him, and it gall be recompensed to him again?" The duty of the
creature, and God’s gift of eternal life, is not a bargain and sale. God
gives to the creatine, he doth not properly repay; for he that re ays
ath received something of an equal value and worth before. Virhen
God crowns angels and men, he bestows upon them purely what is his
own, not what is theirs by merit and and natural obli ation: though
indeed, what God gives by virtue of a p)romise made before, is, u n
the performance of the condition, due y gracious obligation. (good
was not indebted to man in innocence, ut every mans conscience
may now mind him that he is not upon the same level as in the state
of integrity; and that he cannot expect anythingl from God, as the
salary of his merit, but the free gift of Divine `berality. Man is
obliged to the practice of what is good, both from the excellency of
the Divine prece ts, and the dut' he owes to God; and cannot,
without some deciaration from God? ho for an other reward, than
the sati faction of havin well acquittegehimselii;
2. It is the disease of liuman nature, since its corruption, to ho
£or eternal life by the tenor of the covenant of works. Though #gig
' Amyraut, Morale.
I

