_ on rss ooonrrass or son. 213
ruler’s ,conscience was not thorou hly satisfied with what he had
done, but imagined he might, for 51 that, fall short of eternal life,
yet he still hugs the ima 'nation of obtainin it by doing (ver. 17);
“ W'hat shall I do, that Fmay inherit eterna§ life 7” This is natural
to corrupted man. Cain thought to be accepted for the sake of his
sacrifice; and. when he found his mistake, he was so weary of seek-
Ling happiness by doing, that he would court misery b murdering.
All men set too high a value u on their own servicesjy Sinfiil crea
tures would fain make God a dldbtor to them, and be purchasers of
felicity: they would not have it conveyed to them by God’s sover-
eign bount , but by an obligation of justice upon the value of their
works. The heathens thought God would treat men according to
the merit of their services; and it is no wonder they should have
this sentiment, when the Jews, educated by God in a wiser school,
were wedded to that notion. The Pharisees were highly fond of it:
it was the only argument they used in prayer for Divine blessing.
You have one of them boasting of his frequency in fasting, and his
exactness in paying his tithes (Luke xix. 12); as if God had been
beholden to him, and could not, without manifest wrong, den him
his demand. And Paul confesseth it to be his own sentiment before
his conversion; he accounted this “ righteousness of the law gain tc
him" (Phil. iii. 7); he thought, by this, to make his market with
God. The whole nation of the Jews atfected it,” compassing sea and
land to make out a righteousness of their own, as the Pharisees did
to make proselytes. The Papists follow their steps, and dispute for
justitication by the merit o works, and find out another key of
works of supererogation, to unlock heaven’s gate, than whatever the
Scripture informe us of It is from hence, also, that men are so
ready to make faith, as a work, the cause of our justification. Man
foolishly thinks he hath enough to set up himself after he hath
proved bankrupt, and lost all his estate. 'lhis ima 'nation is born
with us, and the best Christians may find some sparils of it in them-
selves, when there are springin up of joy in their hearts, upon the
more close performance of one   than of another; as if thefy had
  off their scores, and `ven od a satisfaction for their ormer
neglects. “ We have forsaibn all, and followed thee,” was the boast
of his disciples: “ What we have, therefore ?” was a branch of
this root (Matt. xix. 27). Eternal life is a gift, not by any obliga-
tion of right, but an abun ance of goodness; it is owing, not to the
dignity of our works, but the magnificent bounty of the Divine na-
ture, and must be sued for by the title of God’s promise, not by the
title of the creature’s services) We may observe,
-3. How insufficient are some assents to Divine truth, and some ex-
pressions of affection to Christ, without the practice of christian pre-
ce ts. This man addressed Christ with a profound respect, acknow
ledlging him more than an ordinary person, with a more reverential
carriage than we read any of his disciples paid to him in the days of
his flesh; he fell down at his feet, kissed his knees, as the custom
was, when they would   the great resiect they had to any emi-
nent person, especially to their rabbins. ll this some think to be
‘ Rom.: 8. “Going about to establish their own righteousness.”

