214 cnsrmocx ON 'ras xr'rnmU'rr:s.
included in the word yovvnervivfmf He seems to acknowled him
the Messiah bg giving him the title of “ Good," a title they   not
ive to their octors of the chair; he breathes out his opinion, that
Ee was able to instruct him beyond the ability of the law; he came
with a more than ordinary affection to him, and expectation of ad-
vantage from him, evident by his departing sad, when his ex cta-
tions were frustrated by his own perversity; it was a sign he iiead a
high esteem of him from whom he could not part without marks of
his 'ef What was the cause of his refusing the instructions he pre-
tendzild such an aifection to receive? He had possessions in the world.
How soon do a few drops of worldly advantages quench the first arks
of an ill- ounded love to Christ! How vain is a compliment? and
cringing%bvotion, without a sgpreme preference of God, and valuation
of Christ above every outwa allurement. We ma observe this,
4. We should never admit anything to be ascribed’ to us, which is
roper to God. “Why callest t ou me ood? There is none good
but one, that is, God.” If you do not acqcnowledge me God, ascribe
not to me the title of Good. It takes off all those titles which fawn-
ing tiatterers give to men, “ mighty," “invincible” to princes, “holi-
ness” to the pope. We call one another good, without considering
how evil; and wise, without considering how foolish; mghty, with-
out considering how weak, and knowing, without considerin how
ignorant. N o man, but hath more of wickedness than goodness;
of ignorance than knowledge; of weakness than strength. God is
a jealous God of his own honor; he will not have the creature share
with him in his royal titles. It is a part of idolatary to give men
the title  which are due to God; a kind of a. worship of the creature
together with the Creator. Worms will not stand out, but assault
Herod in his urple, when he usurps the prerogative of God, and
prove stif and’ invincible vindicators of their Creator’s honor, when
summoned to arms by the Creator’s word (Acts xiii. 22, 23).
Doctrine. The observation which I intend to prosecute, is this :-
Pure and perfect goodness is onl the royal prerogative of God;
goodness is a choice perfection oiy the Divine nature. This is the
true and genuine character of God; he is good, he is goodness, good
in himsel , good in his essence, good in the highest degree, ossessing
whatsoever is comely, excellent, desirable; the highest good, because
first good: whatsoever is perfect goodness, is God; whatsoever is
truly goodness in any creature, is a resemblance of God! All the
names of God are comprehended in this one of good. All gifts, all
variety of goodness, are contained in him as one common good. He
is the efiicient cause of all good, by an overfiowing goodness of his
nature; he refers all things to himself, as the end, for the represen-
tation of his own goodness ° “Truly God is good” (Ps. lxxiii. 1).
Certainl , it is an undoubtecl truth; it is written in his works of na-
ture, and his acts of grace (Exod. xxxiv. 6). “He is abundant in
dness.” And even? thin i  a memorial, not of some few sparks,
ggi) of his greater goo ness és. cxlv. 7). This is often celebrated in
the Psalms, and men invited more than once, to sirggmforth the
praises of it (Ps. cvii. 8, 15, 21, 81). It may better be 'red than
-* Ver. 17. Lightinot. in loc. ' Ficiu. in Dionys. do Divin. Nom. esp. 511.

