on 'ran Goonssss or son. 215
suiciently spoken of, or thought of, as it merits. It is discovered
in all his works, as the goodness of a tree in all its fruits; it is easy
to be seen, and more leasant to be contemplated. In general,
1. All nations in tlie world have acknowledged God good; T6
°-41-'05' was one of the names the Platonists expressed him by;
and good and God, are almost the same words in our language. All
as readil consented in the notion of his goodness, as in that of his
Deity. hlfhatsoever divisions or dis utes there were among them in
the other perfections of God, the all) agreed in this without dispute,
saith Synesius. One calls him Vienus, in regard of his loveliness.'
Another calls him 'Epww love, as being the band which ties all things
togetherzy No perfection of the Divine- nature is more eminently,
nor more speedi y visible in the whole book of the creation, than this.
His greatness shines not in any part of it, where his goodness doth
not as gloriously glister: whatsoever is the instrument of his work,
as his power; whatsoever is the orderer of his work, as his wisdom;
yet nothing can be adored as the motive of his work, but the good-
ness of his nature. This onl could induce him to resolve to create:
his wisdom then steps in, to dyispose the methods of what he resolved;
and his power follows to execute, what his wisdom hath disposed,
and his goodness designed. His power in making, and his wis-
dom in ordering, are subservient to his goodness; and this good-
nes, which is the end of the creation, is as visible to the eyes of men,
as legible to the understanding of men, as his power in forming
them, and his wisdom in tuning them. And as the book of creation,
so the records of his government must needs acquaint them with a
at part of it, when they have o&en beheld him, stretching out his
Ehfimd, to suppl the indigent, relieve the oppressed, and punish the
oppressors, 'und' give them, in their distresses, what might “ fill their
hearts with tbod and gladness.” It is this the apostle (Rom. i. 20,
21,) means by his Godhead, which he links with his etemity and
power, as clearlg seen in the things that are made, as in a pure frlass,
“ For the invisi le things of him from the creation of the world), are
clearly seen, being understood b the things that are made, even his
eternal power and’ Godhead.” 'llhe Godhead which comprchends the
whole nature of God as discoverable to his creatures, was not known,
'ea, was impossible to be known, by the works of creation. There had
been nothing then reserved to be manifested in Christ: but his good-
ness, which is properly meant there by his Godhead, was as clearly
visible as his power. The apostle upbraids them with their unthank-
fulness, and argues their inexcusableness, because the arm of his
power in creation made no due impression of fear u on their spirits,
nor the beams of his goodness wrought in them suffiinient sentiments
of gratitude. Their not glorif 'ing God, was a contempt of the for-
mer; and their not being thankful, was a slight of the latter. God
is the object nf honor, as he is owerful, and the object of thankful-
nem properly as he is bountiful. All the idolary of the heathens,
is a c ear tfstimony of their common sentiment of the goodness of
God: since the more eminentl useful any person was in some ad-
vantageous invention for the benefit of mankind, they thought he
'Empedoclea Y Hesiod, ,

