'
216 crmnsocx ON THE .4'rrnmU'rr:s.
merited a rank in the number of their deities. The Italians esteemed
Pithagoras a god, because he was fMl~~0ew16~1»0s:1 to be good and
useful, was an a proximation to the Divine nature. Hence it was,
that when the lijystriaus saw a resemblance of the Divine goodness
in the charitable and miraculous cure of one of their cri pled citi
zcns, presently they mistook Paul and Barnabas for gods, anclin-
fcrred from thence their right to divine worship, inquiring into noth-
ing else but the visible character of their goodness and usefulnem
to capaeitate them for the honor of a sacrifice (Acts xiv. 8-11).
Hence it was, that they adored those creatrues that were a common
benefit, as the sun and moon, which must be founded upon a pre-
existent notion, not only of a Being, but of the bounty and  
ness of God, which was natiually implanted in them, and legible in
all God’s works. And the more beneficial an thing was tothem,
and the more sensible advantages they received from it, the higher
station they gave it in the rank of their idols, and bestowed upon it
a more solemn worship: an absurd mistake to think ever 'thing that
was sensibly good to them, to be God, clothing himself? in sucha
form to be adored by them. And upon this account the Egyptians
worshipped God under the figure of an ox; and the East Indians,
in some parts of their country, deify a. heifer, intimating the  
ness of God, as their nourisher and preserver, in giving them corn,
whereof the ox -is an instrument in serving for ploughing, and pre-
paring the ground. i
2. The notion of goodness is inseparable from the notion of a
God. We cannot own the existence of God, but we must confess
also the goodness of his nature. Hence, the apostle gives to his
goodness the title of his Godhead, as if goodness and godhead were
convertible terms (Rom. i. 20). As it is indissolubly linked with the
being of a Deity, so it cannot be severed from the notion of it: we
as soon undeiiy him by denying him good, as by denying him great:
Optimus, Maximus, the best, greatest, was the name whereby the Ro
mans entitled Him. His nature is as good, as it is majestic; so doth
the Psalmist join them (Ps. cxlv. 6, 7), “ I will declare my great
ness; they shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great good-
ness." They considered his oodness before his greatness, in putting
Optimus before Marrimus ; reatness without sweetness, is an unrulv
and affrighting monster in he world; like a vast turbulent sea, al-
ways casting out mire and dirt. Goodness isthe brightness and love-
liness of our majestical Creator. To fancy a God without it., is to
fancy a. miserable, scanty, narrow-hearted, savage God, and so an
unlovely, and horrible being: for he is not a God that is not good;
heis not a God that is not the highest ood: infinite goodnessis
more necessary to, and more straitly joined with an infinite Deity.
than infinite power and iniinite wisdom: we cannot conceive him
God. unless we conceive him the highest good, having nothing snpe
rior to himself in goodness, as he hath nothing su rior to hinmelf
in excellency and erfectioéiéy No man can ibl); form a notion
of God in his mindi and ye form a notion of something better than
God; for whoever thinks anything better than God, fancieth a God
- Iamblych. vii. Pytmg. nb. L mi. at p 4a.

