ON THE coonN1~:ss or Goo. 217
with some defect: by how much the better he thinks that thin to
be, by so much the more imperfect he makes God in his tho its
This notion of the gpeodness of God was so natural, that some lpihilo-
_sophers and others, ing startled at the evil they saw in the world,
fancied, besides a good God, an evil rinciple, the author of all pun
ishments in the world. This was ridiculous; for those two must be
of equal power, or one inferior to the other; if equal, the good could
do nothing, but the evil one would restrainhim; and the evil one
could do nothing, but the good one would contradict him ; so they
would be always contending, and never conquering: if one were in-
ferior to the other, then there would be nothing but what that superior
ordered. Good, if the good one were superior; and nothin but evil,
if the bad one were superior. In the prosecution of this, Iet us see.
I What this goodness is. II. Some ropositions concerning the
nature of it. III. That God is good. FV. The manifestation of it
in creation, rovidence, and redemption. V. The use.
I. What tgiis goodness is. There is a goodness of being, which is
the natural perfection of a thing; there is the goodness of will, which
is the holiness, and righteousness of a person; there is the ood-
nge; of the hand, which we call liberahty, or beneficence, a going
g to others.
1. We mean not by this, the goodness of his essence, or the per-
fection of his nature. God is thus good, because his nature is in-
finitely perfect; he hath all things requisite to the com leting of a
most perfect and sovereign Being. All good meets in ,his essence,
as all water meets in the ocean. Under this notion all the attributes
of God, which are re uisite to so illustrious a Being, are compre-
hended. All thin (dhat are, have a goodness of being in them, de-
rived to them by ti; power of God, as they are creatures; so the
devil is good, as he is a creature of God’s making: he hath a. natu-
ral goodness, but not a moral goodness: when he fell from God. he
retained his natural goodness as a creature; because he did not cease
tobe, he was not reduced to that nothing, from whence he was
drawn; but he ceased to be morally good, being stripped of his
righteousness by his apostasy; as a creature, he was God s work ; as
a creature, he remains still God’s work; and, therefore, as a creature,
remains still good, in regard of his created being. The more of be-
ing anything hath, the more of this sort of natural goodness it hath
and so the devil hath more of this natural goodness than men have;
because he hath more marks of the excellcncy of God upon him, in
regard of the greatness of his knowled e, and the extent of his
power, the largpness of his capacity, and the acuteness of his under-
standin , whic are natural perfections belonging to the nature of
an augi, though he hath lost his moral perfections. God is sove-
reignly and infinitely good in this sort of goodness. He is unsearch
ably perfect (Job xi. 7); nothing is wanting to his essence, that is
necessary to the perfection of it; yet this is not that which the Scrip-
ture expresseth under the term of goodness, but a perfection of
God’s nature as related to us, and which he pouret forth upon
$11 his creatures, as goodness which flows from this natural pen-
ection of the Deity.

