218 cssnnocx ON THE A'1'mmU'rEs.
2. Nor is it the same with the blessedness of God, but somethin
fiowin from his blessedness. Were he not first inlinitely blessecf
and fi in himself, he could not be inhnitely good and drifusive to
as; had he not an innnite abundance in his own nature, he could
not be overflowin to his creatures; had npt the sun a fulness of
light in itseif angl the sea a vastness of water, the one could
not enrich the world with its beams, nor the other fill every creek
with its waters.
3. Nor is it the same with the holiness of God. The holiness of
God is the rectitude of his nature, whereby he is pine, and without
spot in himself; the goodness of God is the eiiiux of his will, where-
by he is beneficial to his creatures: the holiness of God is manifest
in his rational creatures; but the goodness of God extends to all the
works of his hands. His holiness beams most in hislaw; his good-
ness reacheth to everything that had a bein from him (Ps. cxlv. 9):
“The Lord is good to all.’ And though he be said in the same
Psalm (ver. 17) to be “holy in all his works,” it is to be understood
of his bount , bountiful in all his works; the Hebrew word signify-
ing both holy and liberal, and the margin of the Bible reads it
“ merciful’ or “bountiful.” _
4. Nor is this goodness of God the same with the mercy of God.
Goodness extends to more ob`ects than mercy; goodness stretcheth
itself out to all the works of) his hands; mercy extends only to a
miserable object; for it is joined with a sentiment of ity, occa-
sioned by the calamity of another. The mercy of God) is exer-
cised about those that merit p nishment; the goodness of God is
exercised u n objects that ha e not merited anythin contrary to
the acts of his bounty. Creation is an act of goodness, not of
mercy; providence in governing some part of the world, is an act
of goodness, not of mercy! The heavens, saith Austin, need the
goodness of God to govern them, but not the mercy of God to re-
ieve them; the earth is full of the misery of man, and the com-
passions of God; but the heavens need not the mercy of God to
pity them, because they are not miserable; though they need the
goodness and power of God to sustain them; because, as creatures,
they are impotent without him. God’s goodness extends to the
angels, that ke t their standing, and to man in innocence, who in
that state stood) not in need of mercy. Goodness and mercy are dis-
tinct, though mercy be a branch of goodness; there may be a mani-
festation of goodness, though none of merc . Some think Christ
had been incarnate, had not man fallen: had, it been so, there had
been a manifestation of oodness to our nature, but not of mercy,
because sin had not mardi our natures miserable. The devils are
monuments of God’s creating goodness, but not of hispardoning
compassions. The grace of God respects the rational creature-
mercy the miserable creature; goodness all his creatures, brntes, and
the senseless lants, as well as reasonable man.
5. B goocihess, is meant the bounty of God. This is the notion
of goodlness in the world; when we say a (good man, we mean either
s holy man in his life, or a charitable an liberal man in the man~
° Lombard lib. iv. distinct. 46. p. 286.

