ON THE eoonnnss or GOD. 219
agement of his goods. A righteous man, and a good man, are dis»
tinguished (Rom. v.   “For scarcely for a righteous man will one
die; yet for a good man one would even dare to die ;” for an inno-
cent man, one as innocent of the crime as himself would scarce ven~
ture his life; but for a good man, a liberal, tender-hearted man, that
had been a common good in the place where he lived, or had done
another as great a beneit as life itself amounts to, a man out of grati-
tude might dare to die. “The oodness of God is his inclination to
deal well and bountifully with ghis creatures.”b It is that whereby
he wills there should be something besides himself for his own glor _
God is good himself, and to himself, i. e. highl amiable to himself);
and, therefore, some define it a perfection of (god, whereby he loves
himself and his own excellency; but as it stands in relation to his
creatures, it is that perfection of God whereby he delights in his
works, and is beneficial to them. God is the highest goodness. be-
cause he doth' not act for his own profit, but for his creatures’ wel-
fare, and the manifestation of his own goodness. He sends out his
beams, without receiving any addition to himself, or substantial ad-
vantage from his creatures. It is from this perfection that he loves
whatsoever is good, and that is whatsoever he hath made, “for every
creature of God is good” (1 Tim. iv. 4); every creature hath some
communications from him, which cannot be without some affection
to them; every creature hath a footste of Divine goodness upon it;
God., therefore, loves that goodness in 'Sie creature, else he would not
love himself God hates no creature, no, not the devils and damned,
as creatures; he is not an enemy to them, as they are the works of
his hands; he is roperly an enemy, that doth simply and absolutely
wish evil to another; but God doth not absolutely wish evil to the
damned ; that justice that he inilicts upon them, the deserved pun-
ishment of their sin, is part of his goodness, as shall afterwards be
shown.° This is the most pleasant perfection of the Divine nature;
his ereati1;gi power amazes us; his conducting wisdom astonisheth
us; his go ness, as furnishing us with all conveniences, delights us;
and renders both his amazing power, and astonishing wisdom, de-
lightful to us. As the sun, b effecting things, is an emblem of
God’s ower; by discovering things to us, is an emblem of his wis»'
dom; Ibut by refreshing and comforting us, is an emblem of his
goodness; and without this refreshing virtue it communicates to us,
we should take no pleasure in the creatures it produceth, nor in the
beauties it discovers. As God is great and ppwerful, he is the ob-
ject of our understanding; but as good and untiful, he is the ob-
}aa1Qti`our love and desire.
6. he goodness of God comprehends all his attributes. All the
acts of God are nothing else but the eflluxes of his goodness, distin~
guished by several names, according to the objects it is exercised
about. As the sea, though it be one mass of water, yet we distin-
` h it by several names, according to the shores it washeth, and
glellasts u on; as the British and German Ocean, though all be one
sea. %V¥hen Moses longed to see his glory, God tells him, he would
give ' a prospect of his goodness (Ex. xxxiii. 19): “I will make
\ Coocei. sum. p. 50. ' Cajetan in secund. seounda. Qu. 84. Ar. 8.

