A20 crmaivocx ON [rss Armrsurss. `
all nay goodness to pass before thee.” His oodness is his glory and
Godhead, as much as is delightfully visil§e to his creatur s, and
,whereby he doth benefit man: “I will cause my goodness," or ‘come-
liness,” as Calvin renders it, “to pass before t ee ;” what is this, but
the train of all his lovely perfections ringin from his goodness ?
the whole catalogue of mercy, grace, lgmg-sugering, abundance of
truth, summed up in this one word (Ex. xxxiv. 6). All are streams
from this fountain ; he could be none of this, were he not first good.
When it confers happiness without merit, it is grace; when it be-
stows hap iness against merit, it is mercy; when he bears with pro-
vokin rebels, it is long-sufering; when he performs his promise, it
is truth; when it meets with a. person to whom it is not obliged, it
is grace; when he meets with a person in the world, to which he
hat obliged himself by promise, it is truth ;d when it commiserates
a. distressed person, it is pity; when it supplies an incligsnt person,
it is bounty; when it succors an innocent person, it is rig teousness;
and when it pardons a penitent person, it is mercy ; all summed up
in this one name of goodness; and the Psalmist expresseth the same
sentiment in the same words (Ps. cxlv. 7, 8) : “They shall abundantly
utter the memor of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy right-
eousness. The Ifibrd is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger,
and of great merc ; the Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies
are over his worlgs.” He is first good, and then com asssionate.
Righteousness is often in Scripture taken, not for `ustice, but charita-
bleness; this attribute, saith one,” is so full of Goal, that it doth deify
all the rest, and verify the adorableness of him. His wisdom might
contrive against us, his power bear too hard upon us; one might be
too hard for an ignorant, and the other too mighty for an impotent
creature; his ho 'ness would scare an impure and guilty creature,
but his goodness conducts them all for us, and makes them all amia-
ble to us; whatever comeliness they have in the eye of a creature,
whatever comfort they afford to the heart of a creature, we are ob-
liged for all to his goodness. This puts all the rest upon a deli ht-
ful exercise; this makes his wisdom design for us, and`this magkes
his power to act for us; this veils his holiness from affrighting us,
and this spirits his mercy to relieve us: all his acts towards man,
are but the workmanship of thisf What moved him at first to cre-
ate the world out of nothing, and erect so noble a creature as man,
endowed with such excellent gifts; was it not his goodness? what
made him separate his Son to be a sacrifice for us, after we had en-
deavored to rase out the first marks of his favor; was it not a strong
bubblin of goodness? What moves him to reduce a fallen crea-
ture to gmc due sense of his duty, and at bring him to an eter-
nal felicity; is it not, only his goodness? T is is the captain attri-
bute that leads the rest to act. This atten s them, and spirits them
in all his ways of acting. This is the complement and perfection of
all his works; hall it not been for this, which set all the rest on work,
nothing of his wonders had been seen in creation, nothing of his
compassions had been seen in redemptiolg
I Hex-le upon Wisdom, on _ 5. . 4 42. ° Ingelo Bentivollo, and Una. Bowl
IV. pp. 260, 261. l,   §elu.ng. Part Il. pp. 704. 705.

