on ms Goonmzss or son. 221
II. The second thing is, some propositions to explain the nature
of this goodness.
1. He is good by his own essence. God is not only good in his
essence, but good by his essence; the essence of “every created
being is good ;” so the uncrring God pronounced everything which
he had made (Gen. i. 31). The essence of the worst creatures. yea,
of the impure and savage devils, is good; but they are not good
per essentiam, for then they could not be bad, malicious, and Of pres-
sive. God is good, as he is God ; and therefore good by himsc t; and
from himself, not b participation from another; he made everythinv
good, but none made him good; since his goodness was not received
from another, he is good by his own nature. He could not receive
it from the things he created, they are later than he; since they re-
ceived all from him, they could bestow nothing on him; and no God
preceded him, in whose inheritance and treasures of goodness, he
could be a successor; he is absolutely his own goodness, he needed
none to make him good; but all things needed him, to be ood
by him. Creatiues are good by being made so by him, and cleav-
ing to him; he is /good without cleaving to any goodness without
him. Goodness is not a uality in him, but a nature; not a habit
added to his essence, buthis essence itself; he is not Hrst God, and
then afterwards good; but he is good as he is God; his essence,
being one and the same, is formally and equally God and goods
’/lv~27u00', “good of himself," was one of the names the Plato-
nists gave him. He is essentially good in his own nature, and not
by any outward action which follows his essence. He is an inde-
pendent Being, and hath nothing of goodness or happiness from any-
thinfr without him, or anything he oth act about. If he were not
good) by his essence, he could not be eternally good, he could not be
the first good; he would have something before him, from whence
he derived that oodness wherewith he is possessed; nor could he
be perfectl gooi for he could not be equally good to that from
whom he d)erived his goodness; no star, no s lendid body, that de-
rives ‘light from the sun, doth equal that sun lily which it is enlight-
ened. Hence his goodness must be infinite, and circumscribed b
no limits; the exercise of his goodness may be limited by himself);
but his goodness, the principle, cannot; for since his essence is infi-
nite, an his goodness is not distinguished from his essence, it is in-
Enite also; if it were limited, it were finite ; ` he cannot be bounded
by an 'thing without him; if so, then he were not God, because he
would) have something superior to him, to put bars in his way; if
there were anything to fix him, it must be a good or evil being;
good it cannot be, for it is the property of goodness to encourage
goodness, not to bound it; evil it cannot be, for then it would ex-
tinguish goodness, as well as limit it; it would not be content with
the circumscribing it, without destroying it; for it is the nature of
every contrary, to endeavor the destruction of its opposite. He 18
ementially good by his own essence; therefore, good of himself;
therefore, eternally good; and therefore, abundantly good.
2. God is the prime and chief goodness. Being good per se, and
I Ficiui. Epist. lib. xi. epist. 30.

