222 CHARNOCK ON THE Arramuras.
by his own essence, he must needs be the chief goodness, in whom
there can be nothing but good, h°om whom there can proceed nothing
but good, to whom all good whatsoever must be referred, as the fina
cause of all good. As he is the chief Being, so he is the chief good;
and as we rise by steps from the existence of created things, to ac-
knowledge one Supreme Being, which is God, so we mount bv steps
from the consideration of the goodness of created things, to acknowl-
edge one Infinite Ocean of sovereign goodness, whence the streams
of created goodness are derived. When we behold things that par-
take of goodness from another, we must acquiesce IH one that hath
goodness by participation from no other, but originally from himself,
and therefore supremely in himself above all other things: so that,
as nothing greater and more majestic can be imagined, so aL=o
nothing better and more excellent can be conceived than God.
Nothing can add to him, or make him better than he is; nothing
can detract hom him, to make him worse ; nothing can be added to
him, nothing can be severed from him; no created good can render
him more excellent; no evil, from any creature, can render him
less excellent; “ our goodness extends not to him” (Ps. xvi. 2);
‘wickedness may hurt a man, as we are, and our righteousness may
profit the son of man; but, if we be righteous, what 've we toHim,
r what receives he at our hands” (Job xxxv. 7, 8) iflas he hath no
superior in place above him, so, being chief of all, he cannot be made
better b any inferior to him. How can he be made better by any
that hath from himself all that he hath? The goodness of a creature
may be changed, but the goodness of the Creator is immutable;
he is always like himself, so good that he cannot be evil, ashe is so
blessed that he cannot be miserable. Nothing is good but God, be-
cause nothing is of itself but God; as all things, being from nothing,
are nothing in comlparison of God, so all thinffs, bein" from nothing,
are scanty and evi in comparison of God. lf anytliin had been,
ea, Deo, God being the matter of it, it had been as good as God is;
but since the rinciple, whence all things were drawn, was nothing,
though the etlibient cause by which they were extracted from nothing
was God, they are as nothing in goodness, and not estimable in com-
parison of God (Ps. lxxiii. 25): “ Whom have I in heaven but thee?"
c. God is all good; every creature hath a distinct variety of good~
ness: God distinctly pronounced ever day’s work in the creation
“ good.” Food communicates the goodihess of its nourishing virtue
to our bodies; flowers the goodness of their odors to our smell;
everiy creature a goodness of comeliness to our sight; plants the
goo ness of healing ualities for our cure; and all derive from them-
selves a oodness og knowledge, objectively to our understandings
The sun, hy one sort of goodness, warms us; metals enrich us; liv-
ing creatures sustain us, and delight us by another; all those have
distinct kinds of goodness, which are eminently summed up in God,
and are all but parts of his immense goodness. It is he that en-
lightens us by his sun, nourisheth us by bread (Matt. iv. 4); “lt is
not by bread alone that we live, but by the word of God." It is  
but his own supreme goodness, conveyed to us through those vane
ties of conduit-pipes. “God is all good ;” other things are good Ill

