ON 'rms eoomrsss or con 223
their kind; as, a good man, a good angel, a good tree, a good plant:
but God hath a good of all kinds eminently in his nature. He is ro
less all-good, than he is almighty, and all-knowing; as the sun cou-
tains in it all the light, and more light than is in all the clearest
bodies in the world, so doth God contain in himself all the gocvl,
and more good than is in the richest creatures. Nothing is goo-J,
but as it resembles him ; as nothing is hot, but as it resembles fire,
the rirne subject of heat. God is omnipotent, therefore no gooll
can be wanting to him. If he were destitute of any which he could
not have, he were not almighty : he is so good, that there is no mix-
ture of anything which can be called not good in him; everything
besides him wants some ood, which others have. Nothing can be
so evil as God is good. There can be no evil but there is some mix-
ture of good with it; no nature so evil but there is some spark of good-
ness in it: but God is a good which hath no taint of evil; nothing
can be so supreme an evil as God is supreme goodness. He is only
good, without ca acity of increase; he is all good, and unmixedl
good ; none good) but God: a goodness, like the sun, that hath all
light, and no darkness. That is the second thing; he is the su-
preme and chief goodness.
3. This goodness is communicative. None so communicatively
good as God. As the notion of God includes goodness, so the no-
tion of goodness includes diifusiveness; without goodness he would
cease to be a Deity, and without dilfusiveness he would cease to be
good. The being good is necessary to the being God; for goodness
is nothin else, in the notion of it, but a strong inclination to do
good; eidier to find or make an object, wherein to exercise itself,
according to the propension of its own nature; and it is an inclina-
tion of communicating itself, not for its own interest, but the good
of the object it pitcheth upon. Thus God is good by nature; and
his nature is not without activity; he acts conveniently to his own
nature (Ps. cxix. 68): “ Thou art good, and dost good." And
nothing accrues to him, by the communications of himself to others,
since his blessedness was as great before the frame of any creature
as ever it was since the erecting of the world; so that the goodness
of Christ himself increaseth not the lustre of his happiness (Ps. xvi.
2); “ My goodness extends not to thee.” He is not of a niggardly
and envious nature; he is too rich to have an cause to envy, and
too good to have any will to envy; he is as liberal as he is rich., ac-
cording to the ca acity of the object about which his goodness is
exercised. The il)ivine goodness, being the supreme goodness, is
goodness in the highest degree of activity; not an idle, enclosed,
pent up goodness, as a sp)ring shut up, or a fountain sealed, bubbling
up wit in itself, but bub ling out of itself: a fountain of gardens to
water every part of his creation; “He is an ointment soured forth”
(Cant. i. 3); nothing spreads itself more than oil, an takes up a
larger space wheresoever it drops. It may be no less said of the
goodness of God, as it is of the fulness of Christ (Eph. i. 23); “ He
fills all in all :” he ‘fills rational creatures with understanding, sensi-
tive nature with vigor and motion, the whole world with beauty and
sweetness Every taste, every touch of a creature, is a taste and

