224 cH.mNocx ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
touch of Divine goodness. Divine goodness offers itself in one spark
gin this creature, in another spark in the other creature, and alto-
,gether make utp a goodness inconceivable by any creature. The
,whole mass, an extracted spirit of it, is infinitely s ort of the good-
,ness ofthe Divine nature, imperfect shadows of that g iodness which
[is in himself Indeed, the more excellent anything is, the more
,nobly it acts; how remotely doth light, that excellent brightness of
gthe creation, disperse itself l How doth that glorious creature, which
[God hath set in the heavens, spread its wings over heaven and earth,
roll itself about the world, cast its beams upward and downward,
'insinuate into all corners, pierce the delpths, and shoot up its rays
linto the heights, encircle the higher and ower creatures in its arms
}reach out its communications to influence everything under the
.earth, as well as dart its beams of light and heat on things above, or
-upon the earthl “Nothing is hid from it” (Ps. xix. 6); not from
iits power, nor from its sweetness. How communicative also is
  water, a necessary and excellent creaturel How active is it in a
' river, to nourish the living creature  engendered in its womb! re-
: fresheth every shore it runs by; promotes the propagation of fruits
, for the nourishment, and bestows a verdure upon t ie ground, for the
. delight of man; .and where it cannot reach the higher ground in its
substance, it doth by its vapors, mounted up and concocted by the
i sun, and gently distilled iépon the earth, for the opening its womb
‘ to bring forth its fruits. od is more prone to communicate himself;
than the sun to spread its wings, or the earth to mount u its fruits,
or the water to multiply living creatures.” Goodness is his nature.
Hence were there internal communications of himself from eternit ;
djffusions of himself, without himself, in time, in the creation of the
world, like a full vessel running over. He created the world that
he might impart his goodness to something without him, and diiiiise
larger measures of his goodness, after he had laid the first founda-
tion of it in his being; and therefore he created several sorts of
creatures, that they might be capable of various and distinct
measures of his liberalit ', according to the distinct capacities of
their nature, but imparted, most to the rational creature, because that
is only capable of an understanding to know him, and will to em-
brace him. He is the highest goodness, and therefore a communica-
tive goodness, and acts excellently according to his nature.
4. God is necessarily good. None is necessarily gplgd but God; he
is as necessarily good, as he is necessarily God. ' goodness is as
inseparable from his nature as his holiness.” He is good by nature,
not only by will; as he is holy by nature, not only by will, he is
good in his nature, and good in his actions; and as he cannot be bad
in his nature, so he cannot be bad in his communications; he can no
more act contrary to this goodness in any of his actions, than he can
un-God himself It is not necessary that God should create a world;
he was at his own choice whether he would create or no; but when
he resolves to make a world, it is necessary that he should make it
good, because he is goodness itself, and cannot act against his own
nature. He could not create anything without goodness in the very
\\ Tom. IL p. 926.

