ON nm Goomrsss or son. 225
act; the very act of creation, or communicating being to anythin
without himself, is in itself an act of goodness, as well as an act 0?
power; had he not been good in himself, nothinfr could have been
endued with any goodness by him. In the act oi? giving being, he
is liberal; the being he bestows is a displaying his own liberalit ;
he could not confer what he needs not, and which could not be de-
served, without being bountiful ; since what was nothing, could not
merit to be brought into being, the very act of giving to nothing a
being, was an act of choice goodness. He could not create anythin
without goodness as the motive, and the necessar motive; his gooii
new could not necessitate him to make the world, but his goodness
could only move him to resolve to make a world; he was not bolmd
to erect and fashion it because of his goodness, but he could not frame
it without his goodnew as the movin use. He could not create
anything, but he must create it good. It had been inconsistent with
the supreme goodness of his nature, to ave created only murderous,
ravenous, injurious creatiues; to have created a bedlam rather than
a world: a mere heap of confusion would have been as inconsistent
with his Divine goodness, as with his Divine wisdom) Again, when
his goodness had moved him to make a creature, his goodness would
necessarily move him to be beneficial to his creature; not that this
necessity results from any merit in the creature, which he had
framed; but from the excellency and ditliisiveness of his own nature,
and his own glory; the end for which he formed it, which would
have been obscure, yea, nothing, without some degrees of his bounty.
What occasion of aeknowled ments and praise could the creature
have for its being, if God had given him only a miserable being,
while it was innocent in action? The goodness of God would not
suffer him to make a creature, without providing conveniences for
it, so long as he thought good to maintain its being, and furnishing
it with that which was necessary to answer that end for which he
created it; and his own nature would not suifer him to be unkind
to his rational creature, while it was innocent. It had been injustice
to inflict evil upon the creature, that had not offended, and had no
relation to an offending creature; the nature of God could not have
brought forth such an act: and, therefore, some say, that God, after
he had created man, could not presently annihilate him, and take
away his life and being) As a sovereign, he might do it; as Al-
mighty, he was able to do it, as well as create him; but inregard of
his goodness, he could not morally do it: for had he annihilated man
as soon as ever he had made him, he had not made man for himself,
and for his own glory; to be loved, worshipped, sought, and ac-
knowledged by him. He would not then have been the end of
man; he had created him in vain, and the world in vain, which he
assures us he did not (Isa. xlv. 18, 19). And, certainly, if the gifts
of God be without repentance, man could not have been annihilaterl
after his creation, without repentance in God, without any cause,
had not sin entered into the world. If God did not say to man, alter
sin had made its entrance into the world, “ Seek ye me in vain,” he
could not, because of his goodness, have said so to man in his inno
‘ Coeeeiisum Theolog. p. 91.
vox.. u.-15

