226 crunnocx ON 'run xrrnmurns.
wnce. As God is necessarily mind, so he is necessarily will; as he
is necessarily knowing, so he is necessarily loving. He could not
be blessed, if he did not know himself; and his own perfection; nor
good, if he did not delight in himself and his own perfeetions.
.Afnd this goodness whereby he delights in himself; is the source of
hfishdelight 11I;_hlS pfrelatures, whebreml he seize the fopgsteps off  
e oves xmse , e cannot ut ove t e resem ance o im ,
and the image of his own oodness. He loves himself because he is
the highest goodness and gxeellencyg and loves everything as it re-
sembles himself; because it is an etilux of his own oodnem; and as
he doth necessarily love himself; and his own excegency, so he doth
necessarily love anything that resembles that excellency, which is
the primary object of his esteem. gut, h I ood* Th
5. Thou h he be necessaril oo , et e is also free y e
necessity of the goodness of h§isgnatur)e hinders not the ligertv of his
actions; the matter of his actin is not at all necessary, but the man-
ner of his acting in a good and bountiful way, is necessaryl; as well
as free." He created the world and man freely, because e might
choose whether he would create it, but he created them good neces-
sarily, because he was first necessarily good sin his nature, before he
was freely a Creator. When he create man, he freely gave himha
ositive law, but necessaril a wise and ri hteous law; ecause e
gvas necessarily wise, and riy hteous, before lie was freely a Lawgiver.
When he makes a promise, ie freely lets the word go out of his HIE;
but when he hath made it, he is necessarily a faithful performer;
cause he was necessarily true and righteous in his nature, before he
was freely a promiser. God is necessarily good in his nature, but free
in his communications of it; to make him necessarily to commurn-
cate his goodness in the first creation of the creature, would render
him but impotent, good without liberty and without will; if the
communications of it be not free, the eternity of the world must
necessarily be concluded, which some ancientlv asserted from the
naturalness of God’s goodness, making the world flow from God m
light from the sun. God, indeed, is necessarily good, ajfectiré in re-
gard of his nature, but freely good, ajectivé, in regard ofthe cfiluxes
of it to this or that particular ailubject (he pitcheth on. He is npr w
necessarilv communicative of is oo ness as the sun of his lig t, or
a treelof its cooling shade, that chioseth not itg objects, but enlight-
ens al indifferentl , without an variation or istinction; this were
to make God of noy more undersi.’andin%than the sun, to shine not
where it pleaseth, but where it must. e is an understanding agent,
and hath; a sovereign right to choose his own subjects; it would not
be a supreme goodness, if it were not a voluntary goodnem. lt is
agreeable to the nature of the highest good, to be absolutely free, to
dispense his gloodness in what methods and measures he leaxth,
according to t e free determinations of his own_will, guided) by the
ii?i§’§’§0?f0155Sgiffl”?.L“§§¢§§§?‘Zfingyoihi;§"fi‘§§s§s9Q.i`$€  
ill; “He will have mercy* on whom he will have mercy, and  
have compassion on w om he will have compassion" (Rom. ll
1 Gilbert as Dei Dominic, P at

