\
ON 'run ooommss or con. 227
15) and he will be good, to whom he will be good; when he doth
acotgdse cannolt but act well, so it is necessary; yet he may act this
g or that glood, to this or that degree, so it is free. As it is the
perfection of is nature, it is necessary; as it is the communication
of his bounty, it is voluntary. The eye cannot but see if it be open,
yet it may glance upon this or that color, fix upon this or that ob-
gict, as it is conducted by the will. God necessarily loves himself;
ca.use he is good, yet not by constraint, but freedom ; because his
afectiou to himself is from a knowledge of himself He necessarily
loves his own image, because it is his image; yet freely, because not
blindly, but from motions of understanding and will. What neces-
sity could there be upon him, to resolve to communicate his good-
ness? It could not be to make himself better by it, for he had a
goodness incapable of any addition; he confers a goodness on his
creatures, but reaps not a harvest of goodness to his own essence
from his creatures. What obligation could there be from the crea-
ture, to confer a oodness on him to this or that degree, for this or
that duration? if he had not created a man, nor angel, he had done
them no wrong; if he had given them only a simple being, he had
manifested a part of his goodness, without giving them a right to
challenge any more of him; if he had taken away their beings after
a time when he had answered his end, he had done them no injury:
for what law obliged him to enrich them, and leave them in that be-
ing wherein he had invested them, but his sole goodness? What-
ever s arks of goodness any creature hath, are the free effusions of
G'od`s qmunty, the offspring of his own inclination to do well, the
simple favor of the donor; not purchased, not merited by the crea-
ture. God is as unconstrained in his liberty, in all his communica-
tions, as infinite in his goodness, the fountain of them.
6. This goodness is communicative with the greatest (pleasure.
Moses desired to see his glory, God assures him he shoul see his
goodness (Exod. xxxiii. 18, 19); intimating that his goodness is his
glory, and his glo his delight also. He sends not orth his bless-
ings with an ill wilq; he dot not stay till they are squeezed _from
him; he prevents men with his blessings of goodness (Ps. xxi. 3);
he is most delighted when he is most diffusive; and his pleasure in
bestowing, is larger than h' reature’s in possessing. He is not cove-
wus of his own treasures. Q lays up his goodness in order to lay-
ing it out with a complacency wholly divine? The jealousy princes
have of their subjects makes them sparing o their gifts, for fear of
giving them materials for rebellion: Grod's foresight of the ill use
men would make of his benefits dam ed him not in bestowing his
largesses. He is incapable of envy; his own happiness can no more
be diminished, than it can be increased. None can over-top him in
idness, because nothing hath any good but what is derived from
` ; his gifts are without repentance: sorrow hath no footing in
him, who is infinitely happy, as well as infinitelv good. Goodness
and r‘11\'V.are inconsistent. How unjustly, then, did the devil accuse
God! \Vhat God gives out of goodness, he gives with joy and
gladness. He did not only will that we should be, but rejoice that
c. had brought us into being; he rejoiced in his works (Ps. civ. 31),

