228 CHARNOCK ON THE 'A'I'I'RIBUTES. -
and his wisdom stood by him, “ deli hting in the habitable parts ol
the earth” (Prov. viii. 31). He beheld the world after its creation
with a corn lacency, and still governs it with the same pleasure
wherewith he reviewed it. Infinite cheerfulness attends infinite
goodness. He would not give, if he had not a pleasure that otlers
should enjoy his goodness; since he is better than an 'thing and
more communicative than anything; he is more joyful in giving
out, than the sun can be to run its race, in pouring forth light. He.
is said only to re ent, and grieve, when men answer not the obliga~
tions and ends of) his oodness; which would be their own felicity
as well as his glory. %'hough he doth not force greater degrees of
his goodness upon those that neglect it, yet he denies them not to
those that solicit him for it: it is always greater leasure to him to
impart upon the importunities of the creatures, than it is to a mo-
ther to reach out her breast to her crying and longing infant. Heis
not wearied by the solicitations of men; he is pleased with their
prayers, because he is pleased with the imparting of his own good-
ness: he seems to be in travail with it, longing to be delivered of it
into the lap of his creature. He is as much delighted with petitions
for his liberality in bestowing his best goodness, as princes are weary
of the craving of their subjects. None can be so desirous to sqneem
those that are under them, as God is delighted to enlarge his hand
towards them. It is the nature of his goodness to be glad of 1nen's
solicitations for it, because they are significant valuations of it, and
therefore fit occasions for him to bestow it. Since he doth not de~
light in the unhappiness of any of his creatures, he certainly de-
lights in what may conduce unto their fclicity. He doth wit the
same delight multiply the effects of his goodness where his wisdom
sees it convenient, as he beheld the first-fruits of his goodness with
a com laeency upon laying the top-stone of the creation.
7. 'llhe displaying of this goodness was the motive and end of all
his works of creation and rovidence.‘ God being infinitely wise,
would not act without the highest reason, and for the highest end.
The reason that induced him to create, must be of as great an emi-
nenoy as himself: the motive could not be taken without him, be-
cause there was nothing but himself in being; it must be taken,
therefore, from within himself, and from some one of those most ex-
cellent perfections whereby we conceive him. But, upon the exact
consideration of all of them, none can seem to challenge that honor
of being the motive of them, to resolve the setting forth any work,
but his own goodness; this being the first thing manifest in his crea-
tion, seems to be the first thing moving him to aresolution to create.
Wisdom may be considered as directing, power considered as actf
ing, but it is natural to reflec pon goodness as moving the one to
direct, and the other to act. Power was the principle of his action,
wisdom the rule of his action, (goodness the motive of his action;
principle and rule are awakenc by the motive, and subservicntto
the end.> That which is the most amiable perfection in the Diwne
nature, and that which he first took notice of as the footsltips of
them, in the distinct view of every day’s work, and the gene vie!
\ Amyr. Moral. Tom I. p. 260.

