ON THE eoonrmss or sob. 229
nf the whole frame, seems to claim the best right to be entitled the
motive and end of his creation of things. God could have no end
but himself; because there was nothing besides himself Again, the
end of every avent is that which he esteems good, and the best ood
for that kind of actionf since nothing is to be esteemed gow? but
God, nothing can be the ultimate end of God but himself, and his
own goodness. What a man wills chiefly is his end; but God cannot
will any other thing but himself as his end, because there is nothing
superior to himself in goodness. He cannot will anything that su-
glremely serves himself and his own goodness as his end; for, if he
`d, that which he wills must be superior to himself in goodness, and
then he is not God; or inferior to him in goodness, and then he
would not be righteous, in willin that which is a lower good before
a higher. God cannot will anything as his end of acting, but him
self; without undeifying himself God’s will being infinitel glood,
cannot move for anything but what is inhnitel good; and? t ere-
fore, whatsoever God ma e, he made for himselfy(Prov. xvi. 4), that
whatsoever he made might bear a badge of this perfection upon it,
and be a discover of his wonderful goodness: for the making
things for himself dbth not signify any indigence in God, that he
made anything to increase his excellency (for that is capable of no
addition?, but to manifest his excellency. God possessing evergfthirgg
eminent y in himself; did not create the world for any need e h
of it; finite things were unable to make any accession to that which
is infinite. Man, indeed, builds a house to be a shelter to him against
wind and weather, and makes clothes to secure him 'dom cold,
and plants ardens for his recreation and health. God is above all
those little helps; he did not make the world for himself in such a
kind, but for himself; i. e. the manifestation of himself and the riches
of his nature; not to make himself blessed, but to discover his own
blessedness to his creatures, and to communicate something of it to
them. He did not garnish the world with so much bounty, that he
might live more happily than he did before, but that his rational
creatures might have it conveniences. As the end for which God
demands the performance of our duty is not for his own advantage,
but for our good (Deut. x. 13), so the end why he conferred upon us
the excellency of such a being was for our good, and the discovery
of his goodness to us; for had not God created the world, he had
been wholly unknown to any but himself; he produced creatures,
that he might be known: as the sun shines not only to dis-
cover other things, but to be seen itself in its beauty and bright-
ness. God would create things, because he would be known in his
glory and liberalit ; hence is it that he created intellectual crea-
tures. because witliout them the rest of the creation could notbe
taken notice of: it had been in some sort in vain; for no nature
lower than an understanding nature, was able to know the marks of
God in the creation, and acknowledge him as God. In this regard,
God is good above all creatures, because he intends only to commu~
nicate his goodness in creation, not to ac%1§re any go ness, or ex-
cellenc from them, as men do in their ming of things. God is
all, and' is destitute of nothing, and, therefore, nothing accrues to

