280 1 cnamrocx ON 'mn .urrarsrmzs
him by the creation, but the acknowledgment of his goodness
Thi; goodness, therefore, must .be the motive and end of all his
WOI' S.
‘ III. 'The third thing, that God is good.
1. The more excellent anything is in natiue, the more of good-
ness and kindness it hath. For_we see more of 'love and kin new
in creatures that are endued with sense, to their descendants, than in
plants, that have only a rinciple of growth. Plants preserve their
seeds whole that are enclgsed m them ; animals look to their young
only after they are dropped from them; yet, aher some time, take
no more notice of them than of a stranger that never had any birth
from them. But man, that hath a higher principle of reason,
cherisheth his offspring, and gives them marks of his goodness while
he lives, and leaves not the world. at the time of his death without
some testimonies of it: much more must God, who is a higher prin-
ciple.th ense or reason, be “ good". and bountiful to all his oil?
spring. The more perfect anything is, the more it doth comrnimi-
cate itself The sun is more excellent than the stars, and, therefore,
doth more sensibly, more extensively, disperse its liberal beam  than
the stars do. And the better any man is, the more charitable he is?
God being the most excellent nature, having nothing more excellent/
than himself, because nothing more ancient than himself, who is the
Ancient of Days: there is nothing, therefore, better and more boun-
tiful than himselfl -
2. He is the cause of all created goodness; he must therefore him-
self be the Su reme Good. What good is in the heavens, is the pro-
duct of some Eeing above the earth; and those varieties of goodness
in the earth, and several creatures, are somewhere in their fulness
and union: that, therefore, which possesses all thosescattered good-
nesses in their fulness, must be all good, all that ood which is dis-
played in creatures; therefore sovereignly best. Wghatsoever natural
or moral goodness there is in the world, in angels, or men, or inferior
creatures, is a line drawn from that centre, the bubblgnggsl of that
fountain. God cannot but be better than all, since the g ess that
is in creatures is the fruit of his own. If he were not od, he could
produce no good: he could not bestow what he hadonot. If the
creature be “ good,” as the apostle says “every creature is” (1 Tim.
iv. 4), he must needs be better than all, because they have nothing
but what is derived to them from him; and much more goodness
than all, because finite beings are not capable of receiving into -them,
and containing in themselves, all that goodness which is in an Ini-
nite Being; when we search for good in creatures, they come short
of that satisfaction which is in God (Ps. iv. 6). As the certaint of a
first principle of all things, is necessarily concluded from the 'bein
of creatures, and the upholding and sustaining power and virtue of
God is concluded from the rnutability of those things in the world;
whence we infer, that there must be some stable foundation of those
tottering things, some iirrn hinge upon which those changeable things
do move, without which there would be no stabilit in the kinds of
thintgrs, no order, no agreement, -or union among tliem: so from the
goo ess of everything, and their usefulness to us, we must conclude

