on 'nm Goonrmss or con. 281
him good, wl|.o made all those things And since we find distinct
goocinesses in the creature, we must conclude that one principle
whence they did flow, excels in the glory of goodness: all those lit-
tle glimmerings of goodness which are scattered in the creatures, as
the image in the glass, represent the face, posture, motion of him
whose image it is, but not in the fulnex of life and spirit, as in the
original; it is but a shadow at the best, and speaks something more
excellent in the copy. As God hath an iniiniteness of being above
them, so he hath a supremacy of goodness beyond them: what they
have, is but a participgtion from him; what he hath, must be inn-
nitely supereminent a ve them. If anything be good by itself, it
must be infinitely good, it would set itself no boimds; we must make
as many gods, as particulars of goodness in the world: but being
good by the bounty of another, that from whence they flow must be
the chief goodness. It is God's excellency and goodness, which, like
a beam, pierceth all things: he decks spirits with reason, endues
matter with form, fumisheth everything with useiiil qualities!" As
one beam of the sun illustrates tire, wat/er, earth; so one beam of
God enlightens and endows minds, souls, and universal nature:
nothing in the world had its goodness from itself, any more than
i§_ had its being from itself 'l‘he cause must be richer than the
e ect
But that which I intend is the defence qf this goodness.
First, The goodness of God is not impaired by suffering sin to
enter into the world, and man to fall thereby. It is rather a testi-
mony of God’s goodness, that he gave man an ability to be happy,
than any charge against his goodness, that he settled man in a capa-
city to be eviL God was first a benefactor to man, before man could
be a rebel against God. Ma it not be inquired, whether it had not
been against the wisdom of (iod, to have made a rational creature
with liberty, and not suffer him to act according to the nature he
was endowed with, and to follow his own choice for some time?
Had it been wisdom to frame a free creature, and totally to restrain
that creature from following its liberty? Had it been goodness, as
it were, to force the creature to be happy against its will? God’s
goodness furnished Adam with a power to stand; was it contrary to
is goodness, to leave Adam to a. free use of that power? To make
a creature, and not let that creature act according to the freedom of
his nature, might have been thought to have been a blot upon his
wisdom, and a constraint upon the creature, not to make use of that
freedom of his nature, which the Divine goodness had bestowed
upon him. To what purpose did God make a law, to govern his
rational creature, and yet resolve_that creature should not have 'his
choice, whether he would obey it or no? Had he been really con-
strained to observe it, his observation of it could no more have been
called obedience, than the acts of brutes that have a kind of natural
constraint upon them by the instinct of their nature, can be called
obedience: in vain had God endowed a creature with so great and
noble a principle as liberty. Had it been goodness in God, after he had
" Ficinus in Con. Amor. Oratt 2. cap. p. 1826.

