252 cnlumocx ON 'rss Amnmuras.
made a reasonable creature, to govern him in the same manner as he
does brutes by a necessary instinct? It was the goodness of God to
the nature of men and angels, to leave them in such a condition, to
be able to give him a voluntary obedience, a nobler ofering than
the whole creation could present him with; and shall this goodness
be undervalued, and accounted mean, because man made an ill use
of it, and turned it into wantonness? As the unbelief of man doth
not diminish the iedeeming grace of God (Rom. iii. 3), so neither
doth the fall of man lessen the creatin goodness of God. Besides,
why should the permission of sin be thought more a blemish to his
goodness, than the providing a way of redem tion for the destroying
the works of sin and the devil, be `udged the lory of it, whereby
he discovered a goodness of grace that surpassed the bounds of na-
ture? If this were a thing that might seem to obscure or deiace
the goodness of God, in the permission of the fall of angels and
Adam, it was in order to bring forth a greater goodness in a more
illustrious pomp, to the view of the world (Rom. xi. 32): “God hath
concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all.”
But if nothing could be alleged for the defence of his goodness in
this, it were most comely for an ignorant creature not to impeach
his goodness, but adore him in his proceedings, in the same langua e
the apostle doth (ver. 83): “O the depth of the riches both of the
wi dom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judg-
ments, and his ways past finding out l”
Secondly, Nor is his goodness prejudiced, by not making all things
the equal subjects of it.
1. t is true all things are not subjects of an e ual goodness. The
goodness of God is not so illustriously manifested' in one thing as an-
other. In the creation he hath dropped goodness upon some, in giv-
ing them beings and sense, and poured it upon others in endowing
them with understanding and reason. The sun is full of light, but
it hath a want of sense; brutes excel in the vigor of sense, but they
are destitute of the light of reason; man hath a mind and reason
conferred on him, but he hath neither the acuteness of mind, nor the
quickness of motion equal with an angel. l.n providence also he doth
give abundance, and opens his hand to some; to others he is more span
mg: he gives greater gifts of knowledge to some, while he lets oth-
ers remain in ignorance; he strikes down some, and raiseth others;
lie atflicts some with a continual pain, while he blesseth others with
an uninterrupted health; he hath chosen one nation wherein *to set
up his gos el sun, and leaves another benighted in their own igno-
rance. “ lénown was God in Judea; they were a peculiar people
alone of all the nations of the earth” Sl)eut. xiv. 2). He was not
equally good to the angels: he held fort his hand to support some
in their iappy habitation, while he suffered others to sin in irrep-
arable ruin; and he is not so diffusive here of his goodness to his
own as he will be in heaven. Here their sun is sometimes clouded,
but there all clouds and shades will be blown away, and melted into
nothing: instead of drops here, there will be above rivers of life. Is
any creatine destitute of the open marks of his goodness, tho h all
are not enriched with those signal characters which he vouchsliées to

