ON rm: Goomrsss or son. 233
others? He that is unerring, pronounced everything good distinctly
in its production, and the whole good in its universal perfection
(Gen. i. 4, 10, 12, 18, 21, 25, 31). Though he made not all things
equalgiy good, yet he made nothing evil; and though one creature in
regar o its nature may be better than another, yet an inferior creat
ture, in regard of its usefulness in the order of t e creation, may be
better than a superior. The earth hath a goodness in bringing forth
fruits, and the waters in the sea a goodness in multiplying food. That
any of us have a being is goodness; that we have not so healthful a
being as others is unequal, but not unjust goodness. He is good to
all, though not in the same degree: “The whole earth is full of his
mercy” (Ps. cxix.   A good man is good to his cattle, to his ser-
vants; he makes a provision for all, but he bestows not those floods
of bounty upon them that he doth upon his children. As there are
various gifts, but one Spirit (1 Cor. xii. 43, so there are various distri-
butions, but from one goodness; the rops, as Well as the fuller
streams, are of the same fountain, and relish of the nature of it; and
though he do not make all men partake of the riches of his grace
after the corruption of their nature, is his oodness disgraced hereby?
or doth he merit the title of cruelty? Vgill any diminish the good-
ness of a father for his not setting up his son after he hath foolishly
and wilfully proved bankrupt; or not rather admire his liberality in
giving him so large a stock to trade with when he irst set him up
in the world?
2. The goodness of God to creatures, is to be measured by their
distinct usefulness to the common end. It were better for a toad or
serpent to be a man, z`. e. better for the creature itself, as it were ad-
vanced to a higher degree of being, but not better for the universe:
he could have_ made every pebble a living creature, and every liv-
ing creature a rational one; but that he made everything as we
see, it was a goodness to the creature itself ; but that he did not
make it of a higher elevation in nature, was a. part of his goodness
to the rational creature. If all were rational creatures, there would
have been wanting creatures of an inferior nature for their con-
veniency ; there would have wanted the manifestation of the variety
and “fulness of _his goodness." Had all things in the world been
rational creatures, much of that goodnws which he hath communi~
cated to rational creatures would not have appeared: how could
manhave showed his skill in taining and managing creatures more
mighty than himself? What materials would there have been to
manifest the goodness of God, bestowed upon the reasonable crea-
tures for framin excellent Works and inventions? Much of the
goodness of God had lain wrapt up from sense and understanding.
All other things partake not of so great a goodness as man; 'et
the are so subservient to that goodness poured forth on man, that
little of it could have been seen without them. Consider man,
ever member in his body hath a goodness in itself; but a greater
goochiess as referred to the whole," without which the goodness of
the more noble part would not be manifested. The head is the
most excellent member, and hath greater impressions of Divine
goodness upon it, in regard that it is the organ of imderstandingz

