234 cnxnnocx ON 'rim Arimmurxs.
were every member of the body a head, what a deformed monster
would man bel If he were all head, where wo\1ld be feet for
motion, and arms for action? Man would be fit only for thou ht,
and not for exercise. The goodness of God in giving man so ngble
a part as the head, could not be known without a tongue, whereb
to express the conception of his mind; and without feet and hand;
whereby to act muc of what he conceives, and determines, and
execute the resolves of his will; all those have a goodness in them-
selves, an honor, a comeliness from the goodness of God (1 Cor.
  22, 232, but not so great a goodness as the nobler part: yet, if
ou consi er them in their functions, and refer them to that excel-
lent member which they serve, their inferior goodness is absolutel
necessary to the goodness of the other; without which, the good:
ness of the head and understanding would lie in obscurity, be in-
significant to the whole world, and, in a great measure, to the per-
son himself that wants such members.
3. “The goodness of God is more seen in this inequality." If
God were equally good to all, it would destroy commerce, unity, the
links of human society, damp charity, and render that useless which
is one of the noblest and delightfulest duties to be exercised here;
it would cool pra er, which is excited b wants, and is a necessary
demonstration ofy the creature’s de end}ence on God. But in this
inequality every man hath enough) in his en`oyments for raise,
and in his wants, matter for his prayer. Besides the inequalit of
the creature is the ornament of the world; what pleasure cbulli a
garden aflbrd if there were but one sort of flowers, or one sort ot
plants? far less than when there is variety to please the sight, and
every other sense. Again, the freedom o Divine goodness, Owzgich
is the glor of it, is evident hereby; had he been alike g to
all, it would have looked like a necessary, not a free act; but by
the inequality, it is manifest that he doth not do it by a natural ne-
cessity as the sun shines, but by a voluntary liberty, as being the
entire Lord, and free disposer of his own oods; and that is the
ift of the pleasure of his will, as well asazie eiiiux of his nature,
glint he hath not a goodness without wisdom, but a wisdom as rich
as ` ounty.
4. 'I e goodness of God could not be equally communicated to
all, after their settlement in their several beings,--because they have
not a ca acity in their natlues for it: he doth bestow the marks of
his goodness according to that natural capacit of fitness he per-
ceives in his creatures; as the wat/er of the sea fills every creek and
gulf with different measures, according to the compass each have to
contain it; and as the sun doth disperse light to the stars above,
and the places below, to s e ore, to some less, according to the
measures of their reception. od doth not do good to all creatures
according to the greatness of is own power and the extent of his
own wealth, but according to the capacit ol' the subject; not so
much ood as he can do, but so much ood as the creature can re
ceive.§The creature would sink, if éod would our out all his
goodness upon it; as Moses would have perished, if God should
ave sh.own him all his glory (Exod.   18, ‘20). He doth

