ON 'rms eoonnsss or con. 285
manifest more good to his reasonable creatures, because they are
more capable of acknowledging, and setting forth his goodness.
5. God ought to be allowed the free disposal of his own good-
ness. Is not God the Lord of his own gifts; and will you not allow
him the privilege of having some more peculiar objects of his love
and pleasure, w ich you allow without blame to man, and use your-
self without any sense of a crime? Is a prince esteemed good,
though he be not equally bountiful to all his servants, nor equally
gracious in pardoning all his rebels; and shall the oodness of the
great Sovereign ofthe world be impeached, notwithstanding those
mighty distributions of it, because he will act according to his own
wisdom and pleasure, and not according to men’s fancies and hu-
mors? Must purblind reason be the judge and director how God
shall dispose of his own, rather than his own inhnite wisdom and
sovereign will? Is God less good, because there are numberless no-
things, which he is able to bring into being? He could create a
world of more creatures than e hath done: doth he, therefore,
wish evil to them, by letting them remain in that nothing from
whence he could draw them? No; but he denies that good to
them, which he is able, if he pleased, to confer upon them. If God
doth not give that good to a creature which it wants b its own.
demerit, can he be said to wish evil to it; or, only to deny that
goodness which the creatine hath forfeited, and which is at God’s
`berty to retain or   ?“ Though God cannot but love his
own image where he finds it, yet when this image. is lost, and the
devil’s image voluntary received, he may choose whether he will
manifest his goodness to such a one or no. Will you not account
that man liberal, that distributes his alms to a great company,
though he rejects some? Much more will ou account him good,
if he rejects none that implore him, but dispenseth his doles to
every one upon their petition: and is he not good, because he
will not bestow a farthmg upon those that address not themselves
to him? God is so good, that he denies not the best good to
those that seek him: he hath romised life and happiness to them
that do so. Is he less good, because e will not distribute his
goodness to those that despise him? Though he be good, yet his
wisdom is the rule of dispensing his (goodnessdig
6. The severe punishment of oifen ers, an e afilictions he in-
ilicts upon his servants, are no violations of his goodness. The
notion of Grod’s vindictive justice is as naturally inbred, and im~
planted in the mind of man, as that of his goodness, and those two
sentiments never shocked one another. The heathen never thought
him bad, because he was just; nor imrighteous, because he was
good. God being infinitely good, cannot possibly intend or act
anything but what is good: “Thou art good, and thou doest
good ;” i. c. whatsoever thou dost is good, whatsoever it be, pleasant
or painful to the creature (Ps. cxix. 68):. unishments themselves
are not a moral evil in the erson that ingicts, though they are a
natural evil in the person that suffers them.° In ordering pun-
ishment to the wicked, good is added to evil; in ordering im
' Camera, p. 80. ° Boatiusr

