9
236 cnsmrocx on 'ma srrnrn .
punity to the wicked, evil is added _to evil. To punish wicked-
ness IS right, therefore good: to leave men uncontrolled in their
wickedness, is unrighteous, and therefore bad. But, again, shall
his justice in some few judgments in the world, impeach his ood-
ness, more than his wonderful atience to sinners is able to sgence
the calumnies against him? l; not his hand fuller of gracious
doles, than of dreadful thunderbolts? Doth he notroftener seem
forgetful of his justice, when he pours out upon the guilty the
streams of his mercy, than to be for etful of his dness, when he
sprinkles in the world some_drops ofhis wrath?  
First, God’s judgments in the world, do not infringe his goodness;
for,
1. The justice of God is a part of the goodness of his nature.
God himself thought so, when he told Moses he would make all his
gpodness pass before him (Exod. xxxiii. 192: he leaves not out in
at enumeration of the parts of it, his reso ution, by no means to
clear the Eguilty, but to visit the iniquity of the fathers upon the
children ( xod. _xxxiv. 7). It is a property of goodness to hate evil,
and, therefore, a property of goodness to punish it: it is no less
riighteousness to give according to the deserts of a person in a way
0 punishment, than to reward a person that obeys his precepts in a
wa of recompense. Whatsoever is righteous is good; sin is evil;
ami therefore, whatsoever doth witness against it, is good; his good-
ness, therefore, shines in his justice, for without being just he could
not be good. Sin is a moral disorder in the world: every sin is in-
justice : injustice breaks God’s order in the world ; there is a. neces-
siltg therefore of justice to put the world in order. Punishment
0 ers the person committing the injury, who, when he will not be
in the order of obedience, must be in the order of suffering for God’s
honor. The goodness of all things which God pronounced so, con~
sisted in their order and beneficial hel fulness to one another: when
this order is inverted, the goodness otp the creature ceaseth : if it be
a bad thing to spoil this order, is it not a part of Divine goodness to
reduce them into order, that they may be reduced in some measure
to their oodness? Do we ever account a overnor less in goodness,
because he is exact in justice, and puniieth that which makes a
disorder in his government? and is it a diminution of the Divine
goodness, to punish that which makes a disorder in the world? As
Wisdom without goodness would be a serpentine craft, and iwue in
destruction; so goodness without justice would be impotent indul-
gence, and cast things into confusion. When Abel’  blood cried
out for engeance against Cain, it spake a good thing; Christ’s
blood s eaking better things than the blood of Abel, implies tl.a1
Abel’s blood spake a good thing; the comparative implies a ositive
(Heb. xii. 24). If it were the gpodness of that innocent blood to de-
mand justice, it could not be a adness in the Sovereign of the world
to execute it. How can God sustain the part of a good and right-
eous judge, if he did not preserve human society? and how would
itbe preserved, without manifesting himself by public judgments
against public wrongs? Is there not as great a necessity that good~
ness should have instruments of judgment, as that there shou d be

