ON 'run GOODNESS or Goo. 237
prisons, bridewells, and gibbets, in a good commonwealth? Did not
the thmiderbolts of God sometimes roar in the ears of men, they
would sin with a hi her hand than they do, fly more in the face of
God, make the world as much a moral, as it was at first a natlual
chaos: the ingenuity of men would be damped, if there were not
something to work upon their fears, to kee them in their due order.
Impunity of the innocent person is worse iilian any punishment. It
is a misery to want medicines for the cure of a sharp disease; and a
mark of goodness in a. prince to consult for the security of the politi-
'xal body, by cutting off a gangrened and corrupting member: and
what prince would deserve the noble title of good, if he did not re-
strain, by punishment, those evils which impair the public welfare?
Is it not necessary that the examples of sin, whereby others have
been encouraged to wickedness, should be made examples of justice,
whereby the same persons and others ma be discouraged from what
before the were greedily inclined unto? Is not a hatred of what
is bad andy unworthy, as much a part of Divine goodness, as a love
to what is excellent, and bears a resemblance to himself? Could he
possibly be accounted good, that should bear the same degree of
affection to a rodigious vice, as to a sublime virtue? and should
behave himselliin the same manner of carriage to the innocent and
culpable? could you account him good, if he did always with pleaf
sure behold evil, and perpetually suifer the op ressions of the inno-
cent under unpunished wickedness? How slhould we know the
ggodness of the Divine nature, and his affection to the goodness of
` creature, if he did not by some acts of severity Witness his impla-
cable aversion against sin, and his care to preserve the good govern~
ment of the world? If corrupted creatures should always be ex-
empt from the effects of his indignation, he would declare himself
ot to be iniinitely good, because he would not be really righteous.
0 man thinks it a natural vice in the sun, by the power of its
rching heat, to dry up and consume the unwholesome vapors of
the air; nor are the demonstrations of Divine _justice any blots upon
his goodness, since they are both for the defence and glory of his
holin and for the preservation of the beauty and order of the
world.
2. it not part of the goodness of God to make laws, and annex
threatenings; and shall it be an impeachment of his goodness to
sup rt them? The more severe laws are made for deterring evil,
the Eatter is that prince accounted in makin such provision for the
wellhre of the community. The design of laws, and the design of
upholding the honor of those laws_ by the punishment of offenders,
is to promote goodness and restrain evil; the execution of those
laws must be therefore pursuant to the same design of goodness
which tirst settled them. Would it not be contrary to goodness, to
suffer that which was designed for the support of goodness, to be
scorned and slighted? It would neither be prudence nor goodness,
but folly and vice, to let laws, which were made to promote virtue,
be broken with impunity. Would not this be to weaken virtue,
and give a new life and vigor to vice? Not only the ri hteousness
of the law itself; but the wisdom of the Lawgiver wouldie exposed

