238 cruasocz os 'rim srrmnurss.
to contempt, if the violations of it remained lmcontrolled, and the
violence offered by men passed unpunished. None but will ae-
knowledge the Divme recepts to be the image of the ` hteousncss
of God, and beneficial flor the common good of the vor]lilg(Rom. vii.
12): “ The law is holy, just, and good, ’ and so is every precept of
it; the law is for no other end, but to keep the creature in subjection
to, and dep;-andence on God; this dependence could not be preserved
without a. w, nor that law be kept in reputation, without a alt) ;
nor would that penalty be significant without an execution.P2l1§very
law loseth the nature of a law, without a penalty; and the nalty
loseth its vigor, without the infliction of it: how can those gews at-
tain their eu , if the transgressions of them be not punished Q] Woiild
not the wickedness of the men’s hearts be encouraged by su a kind
of uncomely goodness? and all the threatenings be to no other end,
than to engender vain and fruitless fears in the minds of men? Is
it good for the majesty of God to suffer itself to be trampled on b
his vassals? to suffer men, b their rebellion, to level his law with
the wickednes of their own hearts; and b im unity sli ht his own
glory, and encourage their disobedience? Vipho would give any
man, any ?prince, any father, that should do so, the name o a good
governor If it were a fruit of Divine goodness to make laws, is it
contrary to goodness to su port the honor of them? It is every
whit as rational and as ood to vindicate the honor of his laws by
justice, as at first to settle them b authority ; as much goodness to
vindicate it from contempt, as at llirst to enact it; as it is as much
wisdom to reserve a_law, asat first to _frame it: shall his prece ts
be thoughtihy him unworthy of a support, that were not thought hy
him unworthy to be made? The same reason of goodness that led
him to enjoin them, will lead him to revenge them. Did evil appear
odious to him, while he enacted this law; and would not his good-
ness, as well as his wisdom, appear odious to him, if he did~ never
execute it? Would it not be a denial of his own goodness, to be
led by the foolish and corrupt judgment of his creatures, and sli ht
his own law, because his rebels spurn at it? Since he valued it ie-
fore they could actually contemn it, would he not misjudge his own
law and his own wisdom, discount from the true value of them, con-
demn his iown acts, censure his prece ts as unri hteous, and there-
fore evil and injurious? remove the differences qietween good and
evil, look u n vice as virtue, and wickedness as ri§1teousness, if
he thought his commands unworthy a vindication? ow can there
be any support to the honor of his precepts, without sometimes exe-
cuting the severity of his threatenings? And as to his threatenings
of punishment for the breach of his aws, are the .not designed to
discourage wickedness, as the promises of rewarcf were designed to
encourage goodness? Hath he not multiplied the one, to scare men
from sin, as well as the other, to allure men to obedience? Is not
the same truth engaged to support the one, as well as the other; and
how could he be abundant in goodness, if he were not abundant in
truth (Exod. xxxiv. 6)? both are linked together; if he neglected
his truth, he would be out of love with his own goodness; since it
cannot be manifested in performing the promises to the obedient, if

