f oN THE Goonxnss or son. 2312
it be not also manifested in executing his threatenin upon the re-
bellious. Had not God annexed threatcnings to hisliiws, he would
have had no care of his own goodness. The order between God and
the creature, wherein the declaration of his goodness consisted, might
have been easily broken by his creature; man would have freed
himself from subjection to God; been unaccountable to him, had
this consisted with that infinite goodness whereby he loves himself
and loves his creatures. As therefore the annexing threatening to
his law, was a art of his goodness; the execution of them is so tar
from being a blemish, that it is the honor of his goodness. The re-
wards of obedience, and the punishment of disobedience, refer to the
same end, viz. the due manifestation of the valuation of his own law,
the glorifying his own goodness, which enjoined so beneficial a law
for man, and the support of that goodness in the creatures, which by
that law he demands righteously and kindly of them.
3. Hence it follows, That not to punish evil, would be a want of
goodness to himself The goodness of God is an indul ent good-
ness, in a way of wisdom and reason; not a fond goofness, in a
way of weakness and folly: would it not be a weakness, always to
bear with the impenitent? a want of expressing a goodness to good-
ness itself ? Would not goodness have more reason to complain, for
a want of justice to rescue it, than men have reason to complain, for
the exercise of justice in the vindication of it? If God established
all things in order, with innnite wisdom and goodness, and God
silently beheld, forever, this order broken, would he not either
charge himself with a want of ower, or a want of will, to preserve
the marks of his own goodnesslp VVould it be a kindness to himself
to be careless of the breaches of his own orders? His throne would
shake, yea, sink from under him, if justice, whereby he sentenceth,
and judgment, whereby he executes his sentence, were not the sup-
ports of it (Ps. lxxxix. 14). “Justice and judgment are the habita-
tion of thy throne, pun, the stability or foundation of thy throne.
So, Ps. xcii. 2. Man would forget his relation to God; God would
be unknown to be sovereign of the world, were he careless of the
breaches of his own order (Ps. ix. 16). “The Lord is kno\vn by the
judgments which he executes;” is it not a part of his goodness, to
reserve the indispensable order between himself and his creatures?
Eis own sovereignty, which is good, and the subjection of the crea-
ture to him as sovereign, which is also good; the one would not be
maintained in its due place, nor the other restrained in due limits,
without unishmcnt. Woixld it be a goodness in him to see good-
ness itseif trampled u on constantly, without some time or other
appearing for the relietp of it? Is it not a goodness to secure his own
honor, to prevent further evil? Is it not a goodness to discourage
men by judgments, sometimes, from a contempt and ill use of his
bounty; as well as sometimes patiently to bear with them, and wait
upon them for a reformation? Must God be had to himself, to be
kind to his enemies? And shall it be acounted an unkindncss, and
a mark of evil in him, not to suffer himself to be always outraged
and deed? The world is wron ed by sin, as well as God is injured
by it. How could God be good to himself, if he righted not his

