240 ` omuzwocx on 'mn ATTRIBUTES.
own honor? or be a good governor ofthe world, if he did not some-
times witness against the infuries it receives sometimes from the
works of his hands? . Would he be good to himself, as 9. God, to be
careless of his own honor? or good, as the Rector of the world, and
'me re ardless of the world’s confusion? That God should give an
eterni good to that creature that declines its duty, and despiseth
his sovereignty, is not agreeable to the goodness of his wisdom, or
that of his ri hteousness. It is a part of God's goodness to love him-
sel£ Would he love his sovereignty, if he saw it daily slighted%
without sometimes discovering how much he values the honor of it
Would he have an esteem for his own goodness, if he beheld it
trampled upon, witlibut any will to vindicate it?~ Doth mercy de-
serve the name of cruelty, ecause it pleads against a creature that
hath so often abused it, and hath refused to have any pity exercised
towards it in a righteous and regular way? Is sovereignty destitute
of goodness, because it preserves its honor against one that would
not have it reign over him? Would he not seem, by such a regard-
lessness, to renounce his own essence, undervalue and undermine
his own goodness, if he drad not an implacable aversion to whatso-
ever is contrary to it? f men turn grace into wantonness, is it not
more reasonable he should turn his grace into justice? ll his attri-
butes, which are parts of his goodness, en(g?e him punish sin;
without it, his authority would be vilifie , is purity stained, his
power dericled, his trut disgraced, his justice scorned, his wisdom
sligbted; hc would be thought to have dissembled in his laws; and be
judged, according to the rules of reason, to be void of true goodness.
4. Punishment is not the rimary intention of God. It is his
goodness that he hath no mind) to punish; and therefore he hath put
a bar to evil, bi' his prohibitions and threatenings, that he might
revent sin, an , consequently, any occasions o severity against
his creature.P The principal intention of God, in his aw, was
to encourage goodness, that he might reward it.; and when, by
the commission of evil, God is provoked to punish, and takes the
sword into his hand, he doth not act against the nature of his
goodness, but against the first intention of' his goodness in his pre-
cepts, which was to reward; as a good judge principallv intend
in the exercise of his office, to protect good men from violence, and
maintain the honor of the laws, yet, conseguentlly, to punish bad
men, without which the protection of the goo wou d not be secured,
nor the honor of tl1e law be supported; and a good judge, in the ex-
ercise of his oiiice, doth principally intend the encouragement of the
good, and wisheth there were no wickedness that might occasion
punishment; and, when he doth sentence a. malefactor, in order to-
the execution of him, he doth not act against the gloodness of his
nature, but pursuant to the duty of his dplace, but wis eth he had no
occasion for such severity. T us Go seems to speak oi' himself
(Isa. xxviii. 21); he calls the act of his wrath his “strange work, his
stran e act," a work, not against his nature, as the Governor of the
worli but against his f`l1‘6l intention, as Creator, which was to mani-
fest his goodness; tlieretbre he moves with a slow pace in those acts,
~ 0 Zsrnovecius, de Satisfact. Part I. cap. i. pp 8, L

