ON THE GOODNESS OF GOD.
brings out his judgments with relentings of heart, and seem:
out his thunderbolts with a trembling hand: “He doth nc
willingly, nor grieve the children of men” (Lam. iii. 33); and there-
fore he “ delights not in the death of a sinner” (Ezek. xxxiii. 11);
not in death, as death; in punishment, as punishment; but as it re-
dueeth the suiferin creature to the order of his prece t, or reduceth
him into order unnler his power, or. reforms others wlho are s -
tors of the punishment upon a criminal of their own nature; God
onlv hates the sin, not the sinner; he desires only the destruction
of the one, not the misery of the other; the nature of a man doth not
displease him, because it is a work of his own goodness, but the na-
t\u'e of the sinner dis leaseth him, because it is a work of the sinner’s
own ext.ravaganee.‘l Divine goodness pitcheth not its hatred prima-
rily upon the sinner, but upon the sin: but since he cannot punish
the sin without punishing the subject to which it cleaves, the sinner
falls under his lash. Whoever regards a good judge as an enemy to
the malefactor, but as an enemy to his crime, when he doth sentence
and execute him?
5. Judgments in the world have a goodness in them, therefore
they are no impeachments of the goodness of God.
(1.)A goodness in their preparations. He sends not judgments
without giving warnings; his justice is so far from extinguishing his
goodness, that his goodness rather shines out ir. the preparations of
his justice; he gives men time, and sends them mewengers, to per-
suade them to another temper of mind, that he may change his hand,
and exercise his liberality where he threatened his severity. When
the heathen had presages of some evil upon their persons or countries,
they took them for invitations to repentance, excited themselves to
many acts of devotion, implored his favor, and oiien experimented it.
The N inevites, upon the proclamation of the destruction of their city
by Jonah, fell to petitioning him, whereby they signified, that they
thought him good, though he were just, and more prone to pity than
severity; and their humble carriage caused the arrows he had ready
against them to drop out of his hands (Jonah iii. 9, 10). When he
brandisheth his sword, he wishes for some to stand in that gap, to mol-
lifa his anger, that he might not strike the fatal blow (Ezek. xxxii. 30);
“ lv sought for a man among them that shouldmake u the hedge, and
stand in the gap before me in the land, that I should) not destroy it.”
He was desirous that his creatures might be in a capacit to receive
the marks of his bounty! This he signiiied, not obseiirelly, to Moses
(Exod. xxxii. 10), when he spoke to him to let him alone, that his
anger might wax hot against the people, after the had made a
golden calf and worshipped it. “Let me alone," saidy God: not that
Moses restrained him, saith Chrysostom, who spake nothing to him,
but stood silent before him, and knew nothing of the people’s idola-
try; but Gcd would give him_ an occasion of praying for them, that
he mi ht exercise his mercy towards them; yet in such a manner,
that the people, being struck with a sense of their crime, and the
horror of Divine justice, they might be amended for the future, when
lhey should understand that their death was not averted by their
4 Suarez, Vol. L de Deo, lib.   cup. 7. p. 146. ' Cressel. Anthol Decad. II. p. 168.
vol.. u.-I6 4

