/
242 ~ CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
own merit or intercession, but by Moses, his patron e of them, and
pleading for them; as we see sometimes masters add 'fathers an
with their servants and children, and preparing themselves to puzglih
them, but secretly wish some friend _to intereede for them, and take
them out of their hands: there is a goodness shining in the prepara-
tions of his judgments. '
2. A goodness in the execution of them. They are good, as they
shew God disaffected to evil, and conduce to the glory of his holi-
ness, and deter others from presumptuous sins (Deut. x. 8): “I will
be lorified in all that draw near unto me ;-in his judgment upon
Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, for offering strange fire. By
them God preserves the excellent footste s of his own goodness in
his creation and his law, and curbs the licentiousness of men, and
contains them within the bounds of their duty. “ Thy judgments are
good,” saith the Psalmist (Ps. cxix; xxxjx); i.e. thy judicial pro-
ceedings upon the wicked; for he desires God there to turn away,
by some signal act, the reproach the wicked cast upon him. Can
there be any thing more miserable than to live in a world full of
wickedness, and void ofthe marks of Divine goodness and justice to
repress it? Were there not judgments in the world, men would for;-
get God, be insensible of his government of the world, ne lect the
exercises of natural and christian duties; religion would he at its
last gasp, and expire among them, and men would pretend to break
God's precepts. by God’s authority. Are they not good, then, as
they restrain the creature from further evils; aifright others from
the same crimes which they were inclinable to commit? He strikes
some, to reform others that are spectators; as Apollonius tamed
pigeons by beating dogs before them. Punishments are God's
gracious warnings to others, not to venture u on the crimes which
they see attended with such judgments. 'lgie censers of Corah,
Dathan, and Abiram, were to be wrought into plates for a coverin `
of the altar, to abide there as a memento to others, not to approach
to the exercise of the priestly oiice without an authoritative call
from God (Numb, xvi. 38, 40), and those jud%nents exercised in
the former ages of the world, were intended by ivine goodness for
warnings, even in evangelical times. Lot’s wife was turned into a
pillar of salt, to ‘prevent men from apostasy; that use Christ himself
makes of it, in t e exhortation against “turning back” (Luke xvii.
82, 33). And (Ps. lviii. 10): “ he righteous shall wash his feet in
the blood of the wicked.” When God shall drench his sword in the
blood of the wicked, the righteous shall take occasion from thence,
to purify themselves, and reform their walys, and look to the paths
of their feet. `Would not impunity 'be urtful to the world, and
men receive encouragement to sin, _if severities sometimes did not
bridle them from the practice of their inclinations? Sometimes the
sinner himself is reformed, and sometimes removed from being an
example to others. Though thunder be an affrightening noise, and
lightning a scaring flash, yet they have a liberal goodness in them,
in shatterin and consumin those contagious va. rs which burden
and infect the air, and therri render it more clieoar and healthful.
Again, there are few acts of givine justice upon a people, but are in

