ON rss eoopzmss or son. 248
the very execution of them attended with demonstrations of his
goodness to others; he isa protector of his own, while he is a re-
venger on his enemies; when he rides upon his horses in anger
against some, his chariots are “ chariots of salvation” to others (Hab.
iii. 8). Terror makes way for salvation' the overthrow of Pharaoh
and the strength of his nation, completed the deliverance of the Is-
raelites. Ha not the Egyptians met with their destruction, the Is-
raelites had unavoidably met with their ruin, against all the promises
God had made to them, and to the defamation of his former justice
in the former plagues upon their oppressors. The death of Herod
was the securit of Peter, and the rest of the maliced christians.
The gracious deliverance of good men is often occasioned by some
severe stroke upon some eminent persecutor; the destruction of the
op(pressor is the rescue of the innocents Again, where is there a
ju gment but leaves more criminals behind than it sweeps away,
that deserved to be involved in the same fate with the rest? More
Egyptians were left behind to possess and enjoy the goodness of
their fruitful land, than they were that were hurried into another
world by the overflowing waves; is not this a mark of goodness as
well as severity? Again, is it not a goodness in Him not to pour
out judgments according to the greatness of his power? to go grads
ally to work with those whom he might in a moment blow to des
truction with one breath of his mouth? Again, he sometimes exei
ciseth judgments u on some, to form a new generation for himself ,
he destroyed an o1d)wor1d, to raise a new one more ri hteous, as a
man pulls down his old buildings to erect a sounder am? more stately
fabric. To sum up what hath been said in this particular; how
could God be a friend to goodness, if he were not an enemy to evil?
how could he shew his enmity to evil, without revenging the abuse
and contempt of his goodness? God would rather have the repen-
tance of a sinner than his punishment; but the sinner wo11ld
rather expxose himself to the severest frowns of God, than pursue
those met ods wherein he hath settled the convegances of his kind-
ness; “ You will not come to me that you mig t have life," saith
Christ. How is eternity of unishment inconsistent with the ood-
ness of God? nay, how can Iiod be good without it? If wickekdnes
always remain in the nature of man is it not 'fit the rod should al-
ways remain on the back of men? Is it a want of oodness that keeps
an incorrigible offender in chains in a bridewfil? While sin re-
mains, it is fit it should be punished; would not God else be an
enemy to his own goodness, and shew favor to that which doth
abuse it, and is contr to it? He hath threatened eternal iiames
to sinners, that'he might the more strongly excite them to a refor-
mation of their ways, and a practice of his precepts. In those threat-
enings he hath manifested his goodness; and can it be bad in him
to defend what his goodness hath commanded., and execute what
his goodness hath threatened? His truth is also a part of his good-
ness; for it is nothing but his goodness performing that which it ob-
liged him to do. That is the hrst thing; severe judgments in the
world are no impeachments of his goodness.
Secondly, The aiiiictions God inflicts upon his servants, are no

