I
244 onnmocx on rnn Amnmurss.
viol itions of his goodness. Sometimes God aiilicts men for their
temporal and eternal good; for the good of their grace, in order to
the good of their glory ;' which is a more excellent good, than afflic-
tions can be an evil. The heathens reflected u on Ulysses' hard-
ship, as a mark of Jupiter’s goodness and love whim, that his virtue
might be more conspicuous. By strong persecutions brought upon
the church, her let arg is cured, her chaif purged, the glorious
fruit of the gospel brought forth in the lives of her children; the
number of her roselytes multiply, and the strencgth of her weak
ones is increased; by the testimonies of courage an constancy which
the stron er present to them in their sufferings. Do these good efi
fects speair a want of goodness in _God, who brings them into this
condition? By those he cures his people of their oorruptions, and
promotes their glory; by giving them t e honor of suffering for the
truth, and raiseth t eir s irits to a divine -pitch. The epistles of
Paulto the Ephesians, Philippians, and Co ossians, wrote by him
while he was in Nerds chains, seem to have a. higher strain than
some of those he wrote when he was at liberty. .As for afilictions,
they are marks of a greater measure of fatherly goodness than he
discovers to those that live in an uninterrupted prosperity, who are
not dignified with that glorious title of sons, as those are that “he
chasteneth” (Heb.   6,h’Q. Can any uestion the goodness of the
father that corrects his c ` d to' reventtliis vice and ruin, and breed
him up to virtue and honor? it would be a cruelty in a father leav-
ing his child without chastisement, to leave him to that misery an
ill education would reduce him to: “ God judges us that we might
not be condemned with the world" (1'Cor. xi. 32). Is it nota greater
glpodness to separate us from the world to happiness by his scourge,
an to leave us to the condemnation of the world for our sins? Is
it not a greater goodness to make us smart here, than to see us
scorched hereafter ? As he is our Shepherd, it is no part of his en-
mity or ill-will to us, to make us feel sometimes the weight of his
shepherd’s crook, to reduce us from our strugglin . The visiting
our transgressions with rods, and our ini uities with stripes, is one
of the articles of the covenant of grace, tkerein the greatest lustre
of his goodness appears (Ps. lxxxix. 33). The advantage and gain
of our aiilictions is a greater testimony of his goodness to us, than the
pain can be of his unkindness; the smart is well recompensed b
the accession of clearer graces. It is rather a. high mark of g0O(i
ness, than an ar ument for the want of it, that he treats us as his
children, and will not suffer us to run into that destruction we are
more ambitious of, than the happiness he hath prepared for us, and
by alilictions he fits us for the partaking of; bg' “imlpartin his holi-
ness,” together with the inflicting his rod (He . xii. 0). That is the
third thing, God is good. _
IV. The fourth thingis the manifestation of this goodness in Greav-
tion, Redemption, and rovzklence.
First, In Oreation. This is apparent from what hath been said
before, that no other attribute could be the motive of his creating,
but his goodness; his goodness was the cause that he made any
thing, and his wisdom was the cause that he made every thing in

