ON 'rnn HOLINESS or con. 245
order and harmony. He pronounced “every thing good,” i. e. such
as became his goodness to bring forth into being, and rested in
them more, as they were stamps of his goodness, than as they
were marks of his power, for beams of his wisdom. And if all ci ca-
tures were able to answer to ~this question, What that was which
created them? the answer would be, Almighty power, but employed
by the motion of in’dnite goodness! All the varieties of creatures
are so many apparitions of this goodness. Though God be one, yet
he cannot appear as a God but in variety. As the greatness of
power is not manifest but in variety of works, and an acute under-
standing not discovered but in variety of reasonings, so an infinite
goodness is not so apparent as in variet of communications.
1. The creation proceeds from gooclhess. It is the goodness of
God to extract such multitutes of things from the de ths of nothin .
Because God is good, things have a being; if he hadp not been good,
nothing could have been good; nothing could have imparted that
which it possessed not; nothing but goodness could have communi-
cated to things an excellency, which before they wanted. Being is
much more excellent than nothing. By this goodness, therefore, the
whole creation was brought out of the dark womb of nothing; this
formed their natures, this beautified them with their several: orna-
ments and perfections, whereby ever 'thing was enabled to act for
the good of the common world. God’ did not create things because
he was a living Being, but because he was a good Being. N o crea-
ture brought forth an thing in the World merely because it is, but
because it is good, and’ b a communicated goodness fitted for such
a production. If God had, been the creating rinciple of things only
as he was a living Being, or as he was an undlerstanding Being, then
all things should have partaken of life and understanding, because
all things were to bear some characters of the Deity upon them. If
by understanding, solely, God were the Creator of all things, all things
should have borne the mark of the Deity upon them, and should
have been more or less understanding; but he created things as he
was good, and by goodness he renders all things more or less like
himself: hence everything is accounted more noble, not in regard
of its being, but in regard, of the beneficialness of its nature. The
being of things was not the end of God in creating, but the goodness
of their being. God did not rest from his works because they were
his works, i. e. because they had a being; but because they had a
good beingl(Gen. i.); because they were naturally useful to the uni-
verse: not ing was more pleasing to him, than to behold those shad~
ows and copies of his owu goodness in his works.
2. Creation was the tirst act of goodness without himself When
he was alone from eternity, he contented himself with himself;
abounding in his own blessedness, delighting in that abundance; he
was incomprehensively rich in the possession of an unstained felicityf
This creation was the first efflux of his goodness without himself:
for the work of creation cannot be called a work of mercy.” Mercy
supposeth a creature miserable, but that which hath no being is sub~
° Cusan, p. 228. * Petav. Theolog. Dogmat. Tom. i. 0. 402.
I Leasiun, de Perfect. Div, p. 100.

