246 ` cnsmoox ON 'mn A'1'I‘RIBU'|.‘ES.
ject to no miseriy; for to be miserable supposeth a nature in being,
and deprived o that good which belongs to the pleasure and felicity
of natiue; but since there was no being, there could be-no misery.
The creation, therefore, was not an act of mercy, but _an act of so e
goodness; and, therefore, it_ was the speech of an heathen, that when
od first set upon the creation of the World, he transfgrmed himself
into lgve and goodness, Ei; Ligmru pFru§li0u| ldv Univ ,uéllnuu C,ll!llflU‘l)'l'fl’,x
This led forth, and animated his power, the first moment it drew the
universe out of the womb of not ming. And
3. There is not one creature but hath a chdracter of his goodness.
The whole world is a ma to represent and a herald to roclaim
this perfection. It is as digieult not to see something of it in every
creature with the nge of our minds, as it is not to see the beams of
the shining sun wi those off our bodies. “He is glood to all” qs.
cxlv. 9); he is, therefore, good in all; not a drop of t e creation, ut
18 a drop of his goodness. These are the colors worn upon the heads
Of every creature. As in every spark the light of the tire is mani-
fested, so doth every grain of the creation wear the visible badges
of this perfection. n all the lights, the Father of Lights hath made
the riches of goodness apparent; no creature is silent in it; it is legi-
ble to all nations in every work of his hands. That, as it is said of
Christ (Ps. xl. 7) “In the volume of thy book it is written of me :”
In the volume of the book of the Scripture it is written of me, and
my goodness in redemption: so it may be said of God, In the vol-
ume of the book of the creature it is written of me, and my good-
ness in creatio1n.auE1yery crlpatuie is a pagpi in this book, whose “line
is gone throng t e eart an their wo s to the end of the world"
(Ps. xix. 4); though, indeed, the less goodness in some is obscured
by the more resplendent goodness he hath imparted unto others.
hat an admira le piece of goodness is it to_ communicate life   a
Hy! How should we stand gazing] upon it, till we turn our eye in-
wards, and view our own dflrame, w ic is much more ravishingl
But let us see the goo ess of God in the creation of man -in
the being and naiure ay' man. God hath, with a liberal hand conferred
u on ever creature the best being it was capable of in that station
P -7 _ . _
and order,fand conducing to that end and use m tlhe world he 1n~
tended it or. But when you have run over all t e measures of
oodness God hath o\u'ed forth upon other creatures, you will find
S P . _
a greater fulness of it in the nature of man, whom he hath placed m
a more snblime condition, and endued with choicer prerogatives,
than other creatures: he was made_ but little lower than the angels,
and much more loitily crowned with glory) and honor than other
creatures (Ps. viii.  Had it not been for ivine goodness, that ex~
cellent creature ha lain yvrapt up in _the abyss of nothing; or if he
had called it out 3; xiothrpg, ttlipr? might haéve beeg less of skilldand
less of goodness ` p aye in e orming o it, an a esser ` of
being impartedhto it, thadn what he liith 00]ll1f61£)I'€((}. 1 G d d
1. How muc of goo ness is visi e in is o y o rew out
some art of the dust of the ground, and copied out this perfection,
as weH as that of his power, on that mean matter, by erecting it into
` I Phereaydes.

