ON 'nm G-OODNESS or Gon. 247
the form of a man, quickening that earth by the inspiration of a
“living soul” (Gen. ii. 7): of this matter he composed an excellent
body, in regard of the majesty of the face, erectness of its stature,
and grace o every part. How neatly hath he wrought this “taber-
nacle of clay, this earthly house,” as the apostle calls it (2 Cor. v. 1)l
a curious wrouvht piece of needle-work, a comely artifice (Ps. cxxxix.
15), an embroidered case for an harmonious lute. What variety of
members, with a. due proportion, without confusion, beautiful to
sight, excellent for 1186, powerful for strength! It hath eyes to
conduct its motion, to serve in matter for the food, and delight of
the understanding; ears to let in the pleasure of sound, to convey
intelligence of the affairs of the world, and the counsels of heaven,
to a more noble mind. It hath a tongue to ex ress and sound forth
what the learned inhabitant in it thinlrs; and hands to act what the
inward counscller directs; and feet to support the fabric. It is tem-
pered with a kindly heat, and an oily moisture for motion, and en-
ued with conveyances for air, to ualify the fury of the heat, and
nourishment to suppl the decays di moisture. It is a cabinet fitted
by Divine goodness tbr the enclosing a rich 'ewel; a palace made
.of dust, to lodge in it the Viceroy of the world; an instrument dis-
posed for the operations of the nobler soul which he intended to
unite to that refined matter. What is there in the situation of every
Ext, in the proportion of every member, in the usefulness of every
` b and string to the offices of the body, and service of the soul;
what is there in the whole structure that doth not inform us of the
goodness of God? ` '
2. But what is this to that goodness which shines in the nature of
the soul? Who can express the wonders of that comeliness that is
wrapped up in this mask of clay? A soul endued with a clearness
of understanding and freedom of will: faculties no sooner framed,
but they were able to produce the operation they were intended for;
a soul that excelled the whole world, that comprehended the whole
creation; a soul that evidenced the extent of its skill in giving
names to all that variety of creatures which had issued out of the
hand of Divine Power (Gen. ii. 19); a soul able to discover the na-
ture of other creatures, and manage and conduct their motions. In
the ruins of a palace we ma. see the curiosity dis layed, and the cost
expended in the building of? it; in the ruins of this fallen structure,
we still find it capable of a mighty knowledge; a reason able to reg-
ulate aiiairs, govern states, order more might and massy creatures,
find out witty inventions; there is still an understanding to irradiate
the other faculties, a mind to contemplate its own Creator, a judg-
ment to discern the differences between good and evil, vice and vir-
tue, which the goodness of God hath not granted to any lower crea-
ture. These excellent faculties, together with the power of self-re-
flection, and the swittness of the mind in running over the things of
the creation, are astonishin gleams of the vast goodness of that Di-
vine Hand which ennoblef this frame. To the other creaturesof
this world, God had given out some small mites from his treasury;
but in the perfections of man, he hath opened the more secret part!

