248 cnsrmoox ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
of his exche uer, and liberally bestowed those doles, which he hath
not expended upon the other creatu.res on earth.
3. Besides this, he did not only make man so noble a creature in
his frame, but “he made him after his own image in holiness." He
imparted to him a spark of his own comeliness, in order to a com-
munion with himself in happiness, had man stood his ground in his
trial, and used those faculties well, which had been the gift of his
Bountiful Creator: he “made man after his image,” after his own
image (Gen. i. 26, 27); that as a coin bears the image of the prince,
so did the soul of man the “image of God :” not the image of angels,
though the speech be in _the lural number: “Let us make man."
It is not to acreature, butto a greater; let “ us," that are his makers,
make him in the image of his makers. God created man, angels did
not create him; -God created man in his “own” image, not, there-
fore, in the image of angels: the nat\u'e of God, and the nature of
an els,_are not the same. Where, in the whole Scripture, is man
said to be made after the image of angels? God made man not in
the image of angels, to be conformed to them as his prototype, but
in the image of the blessed God, to be conformed to the Divine na-
ture: that as he was conformed to the image of his holiness, he
might also partake of the image of his blessedness, which, without it,
could not be attained: for as the felicity of God could not be clear
without an unspotted holiness, so neither can there be a lorious
happiness without purity in the creatine; this God provided for in
his creation of man, giving him such accomplishments in those two
excellent pieces of soul and body, that nothing wa.s wanting to him
but his own will, to instate him in an invariable felicity. He was
possessed with such a nature by the hand of Divine Groodnes, such
a loftiness of understanding, and ‘purity of faculties, that he might
have been for ever hapipiy as we as the standing angels: and he
was placed in such _a con tion, that moved the envy of fallen s irits;
hc had as much grace bestowed upon him, as was proportionable to
that covenant God then made with him : the tenor of which was,
that his life should continue so long as his obedience, and his ha pi-
ness endure so long as his integrity: and as God, b creation, had
given him an integrit of nature, so he had given him a. wer to
persist in it, if he woulid. Herein is the goodness of God dlfplayed,
that he made man after his own image.
4. As to the life of man in this world, God, by an immense good-
ness, c<;pied out in him the whole creation, and made him an abridg-
ment o the higher and lower world,-a little world in a greater one.
The link of the two worlds, of heaven and earth, as the spiritual and
cor oreal natures a.re united in him, the earth in the dust of his body,
ami) the heavens in the crystal of his soul: he hath the upper s rings
of the life of angels in his reason, and the nether springs of tiie life
of animals in his sense. God displayed those virtues in man, which
he had discovered in the rest of e ower creation; but, besides the
communication which he had with earth in his nature, God gave
him a participation with heaven in his spirit. A mere bodily being
he hat given to the heavens, earth, elements , a vegetative hfe, or a
life of growth, he hath vouchsafed to the plants of the ground: he

