ON THE GOODNESS OF GOD. 24:9
hath stretched out his liberalit more to animals and beasts, b giv-
ing them sense. All these hath his goodness linked in man, llieing,
life, sense, with a richer dole than any of those creatures have re-
ceived in a rational, intellectual life, whereby he approacheth to the
nature of angels. This some of the Jews understood (Gen. ii. 7):
“God breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became
a livin soul,” \=1*r\, breath of lives, in the Hebrew; not one sort
of life, but that variety of lives which he had imparted to other crea-
tures: all the perfections scattered in other creatures do unitedly
meet in man: so that Philo might well call him “every creature, the
model of the whole creation:” his soul is heaven, and his body is
earth! So that the immensitv of his goodness to man, is as great
as all that goodness you behold in sensitive and intelligible things.
5. All this was free goodness. God eternally possessed his own
felicity in himself] and had no need of the existence of anything
without himself for his satisfaction. Man, before his being, could
have no good qualities to invite God to make him so excellent a
fabric: for, being nothing, he was as unable to alliue and merit, as
to bring himseli; into being; nay, he created a multitude of men,
who, he foresaw would behave themselves in as ungrateful a manner,
as if they had not been his creatures, but had bestowed that rich
variety upon themselves without the hand of a su erior Benefactor.
How great is this goodness, that hath made us models of the whole
creation, tied together heaven and earth in our nature, when he
might have ranked us among the lower creatures of the earth, made
us mere bodies as the stones, or mere animals as the brutes, and de-
nied us those capacious souls, whereby we might both know him
and enjoy him! What could man have been more, unless he had
been the original, which was impossible? He could not be greater
than to be an image of the Deity, an epitome of' the whole. \Vell
may we cry out with the Psalmist (Ps. viii. 1, 4), “O Lord, our
Lord, how excellent is thy name,” the name of thy goodness, “in
all the earth l” How, more particularly in manl “What is man
that thou art mindful of him?" What is a little clod of earth and
dust, that thou shouldst ennoble him with so rich a nature, and en~
grave upon him such characters of thy immense Being?
'6. The goodness of God appears in the conveniences he provided
for, and ave to man. As God gave him a being morally perfect in
regard 0? righteousness, so he gave him a being naturally perfect in
regard of delightful conveniences, which was the fruit of excellent
goodness; since there was no quality in man, to invite God to pro-
vide him so rich a world, nor to bestow upon him so comely a being
(1). The world was made for man. Smce angels have not need
of anything in this world, and are above the conveniences of earth
and air, it will follow, that man, being the noblest creatine on the
earth, was the more immediate end of the visible creation. All in-
ferior things are made to be subservient to those that have a more
excellent prerogative of nature; and, therefore, all things for man,
who exceeds all the rest in di ity: as man was made for the honor
of God, so the world was maxi? for the support and delight of man,
I Eugubin, lib. v. cap. 9.

