250 cnsnnocx ON 'ms Arrnmums.
in order to his performing the service due from him to God. The
empire God settled man in as his lieutenant over the works of his
hands, when he gave him possession of paradise, is a clear manifests-
tion of it: God put all t ings under is feet, and gave him a de-
puted dominion over the rest of the creatures unrler imself as the
.absolute sovereign (Ps. viii. 6-8); “Thou madest him to have do-
minion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under
nis feet, all sheep and oxen; yea, and the beasts of the Held, the fowl
of the air, and the fish of the sea; yea, and whatsoever- passeth over
the paths of the sea.” What less is witnessed to by the calamity all
creatures were subjected to by the corruption of man’s nature ?
Then was the earth cursed, and a black cloud Hung upon the beauty
of the creation, and the stren h and vigor of it languisheth to this
day under the curse of God géren.   17, 18), and groans under that
vanity the sin of man subjected it to (Rom.   20, 22). The trea-
sons of man against God brought misery upon that which was framed
for the use of man: as when the majesty of a prince is violated by
the treason and rebellion of his subjects, all that which belongs tn
them, and was, before the free gift of the prince to them, is forfeit;
their habitations, palaces, cattle, all that belongs to them bear the
marks of his sovereign flu°y: had not the delicacies ofthe earth been
made for the use of man, they had not fallen under the indignation
of God upon the sin of man. God crowned the earth with his good-
ness to gratify man; ave man a right to serve himself of the de-
lightful creatures he iad providedX(Gen.. i. 28-30); yea, and after
man had forfeited all by sin, and G had washed again the creature
in a deluge, he renews the creation, and delivers it again into the
hand of man, binding all creatures to pay a r`e;pect to him, and re-
cognise him as their Lord, either spontaneo y, or by force; and
commissions them all to fill the heart of man with “food and glad-
ness” (Gen. ix. 2, 3): and he loves all creatures as they conduce to
the good of, and are serviceable to, his prime creature, which he set
up for his own glory: and therefore, when he loves a person, he
loves what belongs to him: he takes care of Jacob and his cattle:
of genitent Nineveh and their cattle (Jonah iv. 11) : as when he
sen s judgments upon men he destrgys their goods.
2. God richly furnished the world or man. He did not only erect
a stately palace for his habitation, but provided all kind of furniture
as a mark of his goodness, for the entertainment of his creature, man:
he arched over his habitation with a. bespangled heaven, and floored
it with a solid earth, and spread a curious wrought tapestry upon the
ground where he was to tread, and seemed to sweep all t e rubbish
of the chaos to the two uninhabitable ploles. When at the 'first crea-
tion of the matter the waters covered t e ea.rth, and rendered it un-
inhabitable for man, God drained them into the proper channels he
had founded for them, and set a bound that t ey might not pass
over, that they t1u'n not again to “ cover the earth" (Gen i. 9.) 'lhe
fled and hasted away to their proper stations (Ps. civ. 7-9), as  
they were ambitious to deny their own nature, and content them-
selves with an imprisonment for the convenient habitation of Him
who was to be appointed Lord of tho world; He hath set up stand

