ON THE GOODNESS OF GOD. 251
ing lights in the heaven, to direct our motion, and to regulate the
seasons: the sun was created, that man might see to “ go forth to his
labor” (Ps. civ. 22, 23): both sun and moon, though set in the
heaven, were formed to “give li ht” on the earth (Gen. i. 15, 17).
The air is his aviary, the sea and rivers his fish~ponds, the valleys
his granary, the mountains his magazine; the first afford man crea-
tures for nourishment, the other metals for perfection: the animals
were created for the support of the life of man; the herbs of the
ground were provided for the maintenance of their lives; and gen-
tle dews,.and moistening showers, and, in some places, slimy floods
appointed to render the earth fruitful, and ca able to offer man and
beast what was fit for their nourishment. Ee hath peopled every
element with a variety of creatures both for necessity and delight;
all furnished with useful qualities for the service of man. There is
not the most despicable thing in the whole creation but it is endued
with a nature to contribute something for our welfare: either as food
to nourish us when we are healthful; or as medicine to cure us when
we are Idistempered; or as a garment to clothe us when we are naked,
and arm us against the cold of the season; or as a refreshment when
we are weary; or as a delight when we are sad: all serve for neces-
sity or ornament, either to spread our table, beautify our dwellings,
furnish our closets, or store our wardrobes (Ps. civ. 24): “ The whole
earth is full of his riches.” Nothing but by the rich goodness of
God is ex uisitely accommodated, in the numerous brood of things,
iznmediatefly or mediately for the use of man; all, in the issue, con-
spire together to render the world a delightful residence for man;
and, therefore, all the living creatures were brought by God to at-
tend upon man after his creation, to receive a mark of his dominion
over them, by the “imposition of their names” (Gen.   19, 20). He
did not only give variety of senses to man, but provided variety of
delightful objects in the world for ever sense; t e beauties of licfht
and colors for our eye, the harmony of? sounds for our ear, the fia-
grancy of odors for our nostrils, and a. delicious sweetness for our
palatesz some have capalities to leasure; all, everything, a quality
to pleasure, one or ot er: he do£i not only present those things to
our view, as rich men do in ostentation their goods, he makes us the
eujoyers as well as the spectators, and gives us the use as well as the
sight; and, therefore, he hath not only given us the sight, but the
knowledge of them: he hath set up a sun in the heavens, to expose
their outward beauty and conveniences to our sight; and the candle
of the Lord is in us, to expose their inward qualities and conve-
niences to our knowledge, t at we might serve ourselves ot, and res
joice in, all this furniture wherewith he hath garnished the world,
and have wherewithal to employ the inquisitiveness of our reason,
as well as gratify the pleasures of our sense; and, articularly, God
provided for innocent man a delightful mansion-iiouse, a place of
more special beauty and curiosity, the garden of Eden, a delightful
paradise, a model of the beauties and pleasures of another world,
wherein he had placed whatsoever might contribute to the felicity of
arational and animal life, the life of a creature composed of mire
and dust, of sense and reason (Gen. ii. 9). Besides the other delica»

