252 cnannocx on 'ms Arrnrsurrs. `
cies consigned, in that place, to the use of man, there was a tree of
life provi ed to maintain his being, and nothing denied, in the whole
comfpass of that territory, but one tree, that of the knowledge of
goo and evil, which was no mark of an il1~will in his Creator to
im, but a reserve of God’s absolute sovereignty, and a trial of man’s
voluntary obedience. What blur was it to the goodness of God, to
reserve one tree for his own propriety, when he had given to man,
in all the rest, such numerous marks of his rich bounty and good-
ness? What Israel, after man’s fall, enjoyed sensibly, Nehemiah
calls “great goodness” (N eh. ix. 25). How inexpressible, then, was
that oodness manifested to innocent man, when so small a part of
it, indulged to the Israelites after the curse u on the grolmd, is call-
ed, as truly it merits, such great goodness! Hgw can we pass through
any part of this great city, and cast our eyes upon the well-furnished
shops, stored wit all kinds of commodities, w1thout reflections upon
this goodness of God starting up before oiu' eyes in such varieties,
and plainl telling us that he hath accommodated all things for our
use, suitedy things, both to supply our need, content a reasonable
curiosity, and delight us in our aims at, and passage to, our supreme
en I
(3.) The goodness of God :;}5pears in the laws he hath given to
man, the covenant he hath m e with him. It had not been agree-
able to the goodness of God to let a creatine, governable by a law,
be without a law to regulate him; his goodness then which had
broke forth in the creation, had suffered an eclipse and obscurity in
his government. As infinite goodness was the motive to create, so
infinite goodness was the motive of his government. And this
appears, ` '
l:1.] In the 'fitting the law to the nature of man. It was rather
be ow than above is strength; he had an integrity in his nature to
answer the righteousness of the precept God created “man
upright" (Eccles. vii. 29); his nature was suited to the law, and the
law to his nature; it was not above his understanding to_ know it,
nor his will to embrace it, nor his passions to be regulated by it.
The law and his nature were like to exact straight lines, touching
one another in every part when joined together. God exacted no
more by his law than what was written by nature in his heart: hr
had a knowledge by creation to observe t e law of his creation, and
he fell not for want of a righteousness in his nature: he was enabled
for more than was commanded him, but wilfnlly indisposed to less
than he was able to perform. The precepts were easy, not only be-
coming the authority of a sovereign to exact, but the goodness of a
father to demand, and the ingenuity of a creature and a son to pay.
“His commands are not grievous” (1 John v. 3); the observance of
them had filled the spirit of man with an extraordinary contentment.
It had been no less a pleasure and a delightful satisfaction to have
kept the law in a created state, than it is to keep it in some measure
in a renewed state. The renewed nature inds a suitableness in the
law to kindle a “delight” (Ps. i. 2): it could not then have anywise
shook the nature of an upright creature, nor have been a. burden
loo heavy for his shoulders to bear. Though he had not a grace

