ON THE GOODNESS or con. 253
given him above nature, yet he had not a law given him that sur-
mounted his nature: it did not exceed his created strength, and was
suited to the dignity and nobility of a rational nature. It was a
“just law” (Rom. vii. 12), and, therefore, not above the nature of
the subject that was bound t.o obe it. And had it been im ssible
to be observed, it had been unrigliteous to be enacted: it Eid not
been a matter of Divine praise, and that seven times a day ; as it is,
“ Seven times a day do I raise thee, because of thy righteous judg-
ments” qs. cxix. 164). 'llhe law was so righteous, that Adam had
every W it as much reason to bless God in his innocence for the
righteousness of it, as David had with the relics of enmity against
it: his goodness shines so much in his law, as merits our praise of
him, as he is a sovereign Lawgiver, as well as a gracious Benefactor,
in the imparting to us a being.
[123 In fitting it for the happiness of man. For the satisfaction
of ` soul, which finds a reward in the very act of keeping it, (Ps.
cxix. 165), “ Great peace in the loving it,” for the preservation of
human society, wherein consists the external felicity of man. It
had been inconsistent with the Divine goodness to enjoin man any-
thing that should be oppressive and uncomfortable. Bitterness can-
not come hom that which is altogether sweet: goodness would not
have obliged the creature to an thing, but what is not only free from
damaging him, but wholly condlucing to his welfare, and rfective
of his nature. Infinite wisdom could not order anything Iheut what
was reeable to infinite goodness. As his laws are the most ration-
al, asaieing the contrivance of infinite wisdom; so they are the best,
as beinv' the fruit of infinite goodness. His laws are not oul the
acts ofchis sovereign authority, but the efiluxes of his loving-l¥ind-
nem, and the conductors of man to an enjoyment of a greater bounty:
he minds as well the promotion of his creatures’ felicity, as the as-
sertingllgiis own authority ; as good princes make laws for their sub-
giegits’ netit as well as their own honor. - What was said of a more
' cult and burdensome law long after man’s fall, may much more
be said of the easy law of nature in the state of man’s innocence,
that it was “for our good” (Deut. x. 12, 13). He never pleaded
with the Israelites for the observation of his commands upon the
account of his authority, so much as upon the score of their benefit
by them (Dent. iv. 40; xii. 28). And when his precepts were
broken, he seems sometimes to be more grieved for men’s impairing
their own felicit by it, than for their violating his authority: f‘ O,
that thou hadst iiearkened to my commandments, then had thy peace
been as a river!"   xlviii. 18). Goodness cannot ‘prescribe a
thing prejudicial : w atsoever it enjoins, is beneficial to t e spiritual
and eternal happiness of the rational creature: this was both the
design of the law given, and the end of the law. Christ, in his an~
swer to the young man’s question, refers him to the moral law,
which was the law of nature in Adam, as that whereby eternal life
wasto be gained: which evidenceth, that when the law was first
given as the covenant of works, it was for the happiness of man;
and the ehd of giving it was, that man might have eternal life by
it :_ there would else be no strength or truth in that answer of Christ

