254 cnrumocx os mm srrsrsurss.
to that Ruler. And, therefore, Stephen calls the law given by
Moses, which was the same with the aw of nature in Adam, “ the
living oracles” (Acts   38). He enjoined men’s services to them
not simply for his' own glory, but his lory in men’s welfare: as if
there were any being better than himself] his goodness and righteous-
ness would guide him to love that better than himself; because it is
good and righteous to love that best which is most amiable: so, if
there were any that could do us more good, and shower down more
happiness upon us than himself he would be content we should
obe that as sovereign, and steer our course   to his laws :
“If'yGod be God, follow him; but if Baal, then ollow him” (1
Kings xviii. 21). If the observance of the precepts of Baal be
more beneficial to you; if you can advance your nature by his ser-
vice, and gain a more might crown of hap mess than by mine, fol-
low him with all my heart: lynever intended) to enjoin you anythin
to impair,- but increase your happiness. -The chief design of God
in his _law is the happiness of the subject; and obedience is intended
by him as a means for the attaining of happiness, as well as preserv-
ing his own sovereiglntyz this is the reason why he wished that
Israel had walked in is ways, “that their time might have endured
forever” (Ps. lxxxi. 18, 15, 16). And by the same reason, this was
his intendment in his law given to man, and his covenant made with
man at the creation, that he might be fed with the finest part of his
bounty, and be satisiedwith honey out of the eternal Rock of Ages.
To araphrase his expression there :-The goodness of God appears
fungal’ b d 4 b <1 11
3]. In en ` gmanto o e ience y romises an t reatenin .
A lhreateniniaismonly mentioned (Gen. iii) 17), but a promise is igni-
plied: if eternal death were fixed for transgression, eternal life was
thereby designed for obedience: and that xt was so, the answer of
Christ to the Ruler evidenceth, that the first intendment of the pre-
cept was the eternal life of the subject, ordered to obey it.
lst. God might have acted, in settling' his law, only as a sover-
eign. Though he might have dealt with man upon the score oi
his absolute dominion over him as his creature, and signified his
pleasure upon the right of his sovereignty, threatening only a pen-
alt if man transgressed, without the promising a bountiful acknow-
ledlgment of his obedience by a reward as a benefactor: yet he
would treat with man in gentle methods, and rule him in a track
of sweetness as well as sovereignty: he would preserve the rights
of his dominion in the authority of his commands, and honor the
oondescensions of his goodness in the allurements of a romise.
He that mi ht have solely demanded a compliance with his will,
would   article with him, to oblige him to observe him out
of love to himself as well as duty to his Creator; that he might
have both the interest of avoiding the threatened evil to aifright
him, and the interest of attaining the promised good to allure him
to obedience. How doth he value the title o -Benefactor above
that of a Lord, when he so kindly solicits, as well as commands;
and engageth to reward that obedience which he might have abso-
lutely claimed as his due, by enforcing fears of the severest penalty!

