ON 'rim eoonsnss or con. _ 255
His sovereigngy   to stoop below itself for the elevation of his
goodness ; an he is pleased to have his kindness more taken notice'
of than his authority. Nothing imported more condescension than
his bringing forth his law in the nature of a covenant, whereby he
seems to humble himself, and veil his superiority to treat with man
as his e%ual, that the very manner of his treatment might oblige
him in t e richest promises he made to draw him, and the startlin
threatenings he ronounced to link him to his obedience: auf
therefore, is it observable, that when after the transgression of
Adam God comes to deal with him, he doth not do it in that thun-
dering rigor, which might have been exgected from an enr ed
sovereign, but' in a. gentle examination ( en. iii. 11, 13): “§ast
thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou skouldst
not eat ?” To the woman, he said no more than, “What is this
that thou hast done ?” And in the Scripture we find, when he
cites the Israelites before him for their sin, he expostulates with
them not so much upon the absolute right he had to challenge
their obedience, as upon the e%1;ity and reasonableness of his law
which they had transgressed; t t b the same argument of sweet-
ness, wherewith he would attract tiiem to their duty, he might
shame them after their offence (Isa. i. 2; Ezek. xviii. 25). '
2d. By the threatenings he manifests his goodness as well as by
his promises. He roxnises that he might be a rewarder, and
threatens that he   not be a punisher; the one is to elevate
our hope, and the ot er to excite our fear, the two lpassions whereby
the nature of man is mana ed in the world. e imprints upon
man sentiments of a misery by sin, in his thunderindg commination,
that he might engage him the more to embrace an be guided by
the motives of sweetness in his gracious promises. The design of
them was to preserve man in his du‘e bounds, that God might not
have occasion to blow upon him the flames of his justice; to su -
press those irregular passions, which the nature of man (thouii
created without an disorder) was capable of entertaining upon t e
appearance of suitaiile objects- and to keep the waves from swell
ing upon any turning wind, that so man, being modest in the use
of the goodness God had allowed him, might still be capable of
fresh streams of 'Divine bounty, without ever falling under his
righteous wrath for any tranggession. What a. prospect of good-
ness is in this proceeding, to ` close ma.n’s happiness to be as du-
rable as his innocence; and set before a rational creature the ex-
tremest misery due to his crime, to aifright him from neglectin his
Creator, and making unworthy returns to his goodness! 5Vhat
could be done more by goodness to suit that passion of fear which
was implanted in the nature of man, than to assure him he should
not degenerate from the righteousness of his nature, and violate the
authorit of his Creator, without falling from his own happiness,
and sinliing into the most deplorable ca amityl
Bd. The reward he promised manifests yet lurther his goodness to
man. It was his goodness to intend a reward to man; no necessity
could oblige God to reward man, had he continued obedient in his
created state: for in all rewards which are truly merited, beside

