256 CHARNOCK ON 'ma Arriunuras.
some kind of equality to be considered between the person doing
service and the person rewarding, and also between the act per-
formed and the reward bestowed, there must also be considered the
condition of the erson doing the service, that he is not obliged to
do it as a duty, hut is at his own choice whether to offer it or no.
But man, being wholly dependent on God in his being and reser-
vation, having nothing o his own, but what he had receives from
the hands of Divine bounty, his service was due by the strongest
obligation to God (1 Cor. iv. 7); But there was no natural engage~
ment on God to return a reward to him; for man could return no-
thing of his own but that only which he had received from his
Creator. It must be pure goodness that gives a gracious reward for
a due debt, to receive his own from man, and return more than he
had received. A Divine reward doth far surmount the value of a.
rational service. It was, therefore, a mighty goodness to stipulate
with man, that upon his obedience he should enjoy an immortalit
in that nature. The article on man’s part was obedience, which
was necessarily just, and founded in the nature of man; he had
been unjust, ungrateful, and violated all laws of righteousness, had
he committed any act unwortliy of one that had been so great a
subject of Divine liberality.= ut the article on God’s part, of giv-
ing a perpetual blessedness to innocent man, was not foimded upon
ru es of strict justice and righteousness, for that would have ar ned
God to be a debtor to man ; but that God cannot be to the wori of
his hands, that had received the materials of his being and actin
from him, as the vessel doth from the potter. But this was founded
onl on the goodness of the Divine nature, whereby he cannot but
be Kind to an innocent and holy creature. The nature of God in-
clined him to it by the rules of goodness, but the service of man
could not claim it by the rules of justice without a stipulation; so
that the covenant whereb God obliged himself to continue the
happiness of man upon tliie continuance of his obedience, in the
original of it, springs from pure goodness ; though the performance
of it, u on the fulfilling condition required in the creature, was
founded) upon the rules of righteousness and truth, after Divine
goodness had brought it forth. God did create man for a. reward
and happiness; now God’s implanting in the nature of man a desire
after ha piness, and some higher hap(piness than he had in creation
invested) him in, doth evidence that od did not create man only
for his own service, but for his attaining a greater happiness. All
rational creatures are possessed with a principle of seeking after
good, the highest good, and God did not plant in man this principle
in vain; it had not been oodness to put this principle in man, if
he had designed never to iestow a. happiness on man for his obe~
dience: this had been repugnant to the goodness and wisdom of
God; and the Scripture doth very emphatically express the felicit
of man to be the design of God in the first forming him and monk;
ing him a creature, as well as working him a new creature; “ He
that hath wrought us for the self-same thing is God” (2 Cor. v. 1. 5):
he framed this earthly tabernacle for a residence in an eternal habi
I Amyral. Dissertat. pp. 687, 688.

