ON 'mn GOODNiESS or GOD. 257
tation, and a better habitation than an earthly paradise. What we
expect in the resinrection, that very same thing God did in crea-
tion intend us for; but since the corruption of our natures, we must
undergo a dissolution of our bodies, and may have just reason of a
despondenc , since sin hath seemed to change the course of God’s
bounty, and' brought us under a curse. He hath given us the ear
nest of his Spirit, as an assurance that he will perform that very
self-same thing, the conferring that happiness upon renewed crea-
tures for which he first formed man in creation, when he compacted
his earthly tabernacle of the dust of the ground, and reared it up
before him.
4th. It was a mighty goodness that God should give man an eternal
reward. That an eternit of reward was promised, is implied in the
death that was threatened upon transgression: whatsoever you con-
ceive the threatened death to be, either for nature, or duration upon
transgression; of the same nature and duration you must suppose
the life to be, which is implied upon his constancy in his integrity.
As sin would render him an eternal object of God’s hatred, so
his obedience would render him an eternall amiable object to his
Creator, as the standing angels are reserved, and confirmed in an
entire felicity and glory. Though tilie threatening be only expressed
by God (Gen. ii. 17% yet the other is implied, and might easily be
concluded from it y Adam. And one reason why God only ex-
pressed the threatening, and not the promise, was, because man
might collect some hopes and expectations of a perpetual happiness
from that image of God which e beheld in himself, and from the
large provision he had made for him in the world, and the com-
mission given him to increase, and multiply, and to rule as a lord
over his other works; whereas he could not so easily have imagined
himself capable of being exposed to such an extraordinary calamit
as an eternal death, without some signiiication of it from God. Ii
is easily concludable, that eternal life was sigpposed to be promised,
to be conferred upon him if he stood, as we as eternal death to be
inflicted on him if he rebelledf* Now this eternal life was not due
to his nature, but it was a pure beam, and gift of Divine goodness;
for there was no proportion between man’s service in his innocent
estate, and a reward so great both for nature and duration: it was a
higher reward than can be imagined either due to the nature of man,
or upon any natural. right claimable by his obedience. All that
coul be expected by him was but a natural happiness, not a super-
natural: as there was no necessity upon the account of natural
righteousness, so there was no necessity upon the account of the
goodness of God to elevate the nature of man to a supernatural
appiness, merely because he created him: for though it be necessary
for God, when he would create, in regard of his wisdom, to create
for some end, yet it was not necemary that end should be a super-
natural end and hap iness, since a nat\1ral blessedness had been
sufiicient for man. gud though God, in creating angels and men
intellectual and rational creatures, did make them necessary .for
himself and his own glory, yet it was not necessarily for him 10
° Suarez. de Gratis, Vol. I. pp. 126, 127.
vor.. n.-17

