I
258 crmmocx on 'nm xrrarmrrms.
order either angels or men to such a. felicity as consists in a clear
vision, and so high a fruition, of himself: for all other things are
made by him for himself, and yet not for the vision of himself, God
might have createdhman onlylfor alnaturaldhapfgness, according to
the erfection of is natura fltcu ties, an ha dealt bountifull
withphim, if he had never intended him a supernatural blessednesi
and an eternal recompense: but what a largcness of goodness is
here, to design man, in his creation, for so rich a blessedness as an
eternal life, with the fruition of himself! He hath not only given to
man all things which are necessary, but designed for man that which
the poor creature could not imagine: he garnished the earth for him,
and garnished him for an eternal felicity, had he not, by slightin
ah; fgoodnesp of dGod, stripped himself of the present, and forfeited
` uture b esse ness.
Bbcofndly, The manifestation of this goodness in Redemption. The
Whole gospel is nothing but one entire. mirror of Divine goodness:
the whole of redem tion is wrapped up in that one expression of
the laéngels’ sang (Euke ii. $42, “Go1pidi:vil1 towards mnein.; tlglae
ane san u oneson eore,w c isuonreco , u e
miter of 5 seems to be thi wisdom of God chigfly in creation il ob
xxxviii. 7; compare chap. ix. 5, 6, 8, 9). The angels are t ere
meant by the “morning stars ;” the visible stars of heaven were not
distinctly formed whein gli; founaéations of the eartliwere laid: and
e title of the sons o veri es it, since none ut creatures of
understanding are dignified in Scrilpture with that title. There they
cellebgate his wisdom in crexgtipfli; ere his goodness in redemption,
W ic is the entire matter o e son _
i. Goodness was the spring of redemption. All and every part
of it owes only to this perfection the a pearance of it in the world.
This only excited wisdom to bring fortli) from so great an evil as the
apostacy of man, so great a goo as the recovery of him. When
man fel from his created goodness, God would evidence that he
could not fall from his iniinite goodness: that the greatest evil could
not surmount the ability of his wisdom to contrive, nor the riches
of his bounty to present us a remedy for it. Divine Goodness would
not stand by a spectator, without being reliever of that misery man
had plunged himself into; but by astonishing methods it would
recover him to happiness, who had Wrested himself out of his hands,
to fling himself into the most deplorable calamity: and it was the
greater, since it surmoimted those natural inclinations, and them
strong provocations which he had to shower down the power of his
wrath. What could be the source of such a procedure, but this
excellency of Divine nature, since no violence could force him, nor
was there any merit to persuade to such a restoration? This, under
the name of his “ love,’ is rendered the sole cause of the redeeming
death of the Son: it was to commend his love with the highest
gloss, and in so singulara manner that had not its parallel in nature
nor in all his other works, and reaches in the brightness of it beyond
the _manifested extent of any other attribute (Rom. v. 8). It must
be only a. mrwulo nem that induced him to expose the life
of his Son to those " ultief- in the world, and death upon the crow,

