ON PBI GOODNESS OF GOD. 259
for the freedom of sordid rebels: his great end was to give such a
demonstration of the liberality of his nat\u‘e, as might be attractive
to his creature, remove its shakings and tremblings, and encourage
its ap roaches to him. It is in this he would not only manifest his
love, gmt assume the name of “Love.” By this name the Holy
Ghost calls him, in relation to this good will manifested in his Son
(1 John iv. 8, 9), “ God is love.” In this is manifested the love of
God towards us, because that God sent his onl -begotten Son into
the world, that we might “live through him.” He would take the
name he never expressed himself in before. He was Jehovah, in
regard of the truth of his promise; so he would be known of old:
he is Goodness, in regard of the grandeur of his aifection in the
mission of his Son : and, therefore, he would be known by the name
of Love now, in the days of thegospel.
  It was a. pure goo ness. He was under no obligation to pity
our misery, and repair our ruins: he might have stood to the terms
of the first covenant, and exacted our eternal death, since we had
committed an infinite transgression: he was under no tie to put of
the robes of a judge for the bowels of a father, and erect a mercy-
seat above his tribunal of justice.” The re aration of man had no
necessary connexion with his creation; it éllows not, that because
Goodness had extracted us from nothing by a mighty wer, that it
must lift us out of wilful misery by a mighty grace. ggrtainly that
God who had no need of creating us, had far less need of redeeming
us: for, since he created one world, he could have as easily de-
stroyed it, and reared another. It had not been tmbecoming the
Divine Goodness or Wisdom, to have let man perpetually wallow in
that sink wherein he had plunged himself, since he was criminal by
his own will, and, therefore, miserable by his own fault: nothing
could necessitate this reparation. If Divine Goodness could not be
obliged by the angelical dignity to re air that nature, he is further
from any obligation by the meanness ol) man to repair human nature.
There was less necewity to restore man than to restore the fallen
angels. What could man do to oblige God to a reparation of him,
since he could not render him a recompense for his goodness mani-
fested in his creation? He must be much more impotent to render
him a debtor for the redemption of him from misery. Could it be a
salary for anything we had done? Alas! we are so far from merit-
ing it, that by our daily demerits, we seem ambitious to put a stop
to any further eifusions of it: we could not have complained of him,
if he had left us in the misery we had courted, since he was bound
by no law to bestow upon us the recovery we wanted. When the
apostle speaks of the gospel of “ redenription,” he giveth it the title
o the “gospel of the blessed God " (2 im. i. 11). It was the gospel
of a God .aboundin in his own blessedness, which received no
addition by man’s redem tion; if he had been blessed by it, it had
been a goodness to   as well as to the creature: it was not an
indigent goodness needing the receiving anything from us; but it
was a ,pure goodness, streaming out of itself, without bringing any-
thing into itself for the perfection of it: there was no goodness m
* Rada. Controvers. Part III. p. 868.

