Q
260 i crmnnocx -oN 'nm mrnrsurns.
us to be the motiveof his love, but his goodnem was the 'fountain
of our benefit
  It was a distinct goodness of the whole Trinity. In the crea-
tion of man we find a general consultation (Gen. i. 26), withouft those
distinct labors and offices of each person, and without those raised
expressions and marks of joy and triumph as at man’s restoration.
In this there are distinct functions; the grace of the Father, the
merit of the Son, and the efiicac of the Spirit. The Father makes
the promise of redemption, the gon seals it with his blood, and the
Spirit applies it. The Father adopts us to be his children, the Son
redeems us to be his members, an the Spirit renews us be be his
tem les. In this the Father testifies himself well-pleased in a voice;
the lSon proclaims his own delight to do the will of God, and the
Spirit hastens, with the wing of a dove, to fit him for his work, and
a rwards, in his apparition in the likeness of fiery tongues, mani-
fests his zeal for the propagation of the redeeming gospel.
iv. The eifeds of lt proclaim His great goodness. t is by this
we are delivered from the corruption of O11l` nature, the ruin of our
happiness, the deformity of our sins, and the punishment of our
transgressions; he frees us from the ignorance wherewith we were
darkened and nom the slavery wherein we were fettered. When
he came to make Adam’s process after his crime, instead of pm-
nouncing the sentence of death he had merited, he utters a promise
that man could not have expected; his kindness swells above his
pplolvoked justice, and, while he chaseth him out of paradise, he gives
' hopes of regaining the same, or a better habitation; and is, in
the whole, more ready to prevent him with the blessings of his good-
ness, than charge him with the horror of his crimes (Gen.   15).
It is a goodness that pardons us more transgressions than there are
moments in our lives, and overlooks as many follies as there are
thoughts in our heart: hedoth not only relieve our wants, but re-
stores us to our dignity. It is a greater testimony of goodness to
instate a person in the hilglhlest honors, than barely to supply hi.;pre-
sent necessity: it is an a irable ity whereby he was mclin to
redeem us, and an incom arable agection whereby he was resolved
to exalt us. What can be desired more of him than his goodn 
hath granted? He hath sought us out when we were lost, and ran-
somed us when we were ca tives; he hath pardoned us when we
were condemned, and raised us when we were dead. In creation he
reared us from nothing, in redemption he delivers our understanding
from ignorance and vanity, and our wills from impotence and ob-
stinacy, and our whole man from a death worse than that nothing he
drew us from by creation.
v. Hence we may consider the height of this goodness in redemp-
tion to exceed that in creation. He gave man a being in creation,
but did not draw him from inexpressible miserg' by that act His
liberality in the gospel doth infinitely surpass w at we admire in the
works of nature; his goodness in the latter is more astonishing to
our belief, than his goodness in creation is visible to our eye. There
i8 more of his bounty expressed in that one verse, “ So God loved
the world, that he gave his only begotten Son" (John   16), than

