oN mr: soommss or son. 261
there is in the whole volume of the world: it is an incom rehensible
so; a so that all the angels in heaven cannot analyse; and few com-
ment upon, or understand, the dimensions of this so. In creation he
ibrmed an innocent creature of the dust of the ground; in redempg
tion he restores a rebellious creature by the blood of his Son: it is
greater than that goodness manifested in creation.
lst. In regard of the difhculty in effecting it. In creation, mere
nothing was vanquished to bring us into being; in redemption, sul-
len enmit was con uered for the enjoyment of our restoration ; in
creation, lie subdued a nullity to make us creatures; in redemption,
his goodness overcomes his omnipotent justice to restore us to feli-
eity. A word from the mouth of Goodness ins ired the dust of
men’s bodies with a living soul; but the blood oil) his Son must be
shed, and the laws of natural aifection seems to be overturned, to
lay the foundation of our renewed hap iness. In the first, heaven
did but speak, and the earth was formed; in the second, heaven it-
self must sink to earth, and be clothed with dusty earth, to reduce
man’s dust to its original state.
2d. This goodness is greater than that manifested in creation, in
regard of its cost. This was a more expensive goodness than what
was laid out in creation. “The redemption of one soul is recious”
(Ps. xlix. 8), much more costly than the whole fabric of tliie world,
or as many worlds as the understandings of angels in their utmost
extent can conceive to be created. For the effecting of this, God
parts with his dearest treasure, and his Son eclipses his choicest
glory. For this, God must be made man, Eternity must suffer death,
the Lord of angels must weep in a cradle, and the Creator of the
world must hang like a slave; he must be in a mangerin Bethlehem,
and die upon a cross on Calvary; unspotted righteousness must be
made sin, and unblemished blessedness be made a curse. He wasat
no other expense than the breath of his mouth to form man; the
fruits of the earth could have maintained innocent man without any
other cost; but his broken nature cannot be healed without the in-
valuable medicine of the blood of God. View Christ in the womb
and in the manger, in his wear steps and hunggy bowels, in his
prostrations in the garden, andy in 's clodded rops of bloody
sweat; view his head ierced with a crown of thorns, and his face
hesmeared with the soldiiers’ slabber; view him in his march to C.l-
vary, and his elevation oii the ainful cross, with his head hanged
down, and his side streamin bliood; view him elted with the scoifs
of the governors, and the derisions of the rab§>1e; and see, in all
this, what cost Goodness was at for man’s redem tion I In creation,
his power made the sun to shine upon us, audi) in redemption, his
bowels sent a Son to die for us.
3d. This goodness of God in redemption is greater than that man-'
ifested in creation, in regard of man’s desert of the contrary. In
the creation, as there was nothing without him to allure him to the
9X}Kessions of his bounty, so there was nothing that did damp the
Inc 'nations of his goodness: the nothing from whence the world
was drawn, could never merit, nor dernerit a being, because it was
nothing; as there was nothing to engage him, so there was nothing
l
,l

