262 cnsinrocx ON THE srrsrsurss.
to disoblige him; as his favor could not be merited, so neither could
his anger be deserved. But in this he finds ingratitudc against the
former marks of his goodness, and rebellion against the sweetness
of his sovereignty,-crimes unworthy of the dews of goodness, and
worthy of the s arpest strokes of vengeance; and therefore the
Scripture advanceth the honor of it above the title of mere good-
ness, to that of “grace” (Rom. i. 2; Titus ii. ll); because men were
not only unworthy of a blessing, but worthy of a curse. An innocent
nothing more deserves creation, than a culpable creature deserves an
exemption from destruction. When man fell, and gave occasion to
God to repent of his created work, his ravishing goodness surmou nt-
ed the occasions he had of repenting, and the provocations he had
to the destruction of his frame.
4th. It was a greater goodness than was expressed towards the
angels.
1. A greater goodness than was expressed towards the standing
angels. The Son of God did no more expose his life for the con-
firmation of those that stood, than for the restoration of those that
fell; the death of Christ was not for the holy angels, but for simple
man; they needed the grace of God to confirm them, but not the
death of Christ to restore or preserve them; they had a beloved ho-
liness to be established by the powerful grace of God, but not any
abominable sin to be blotted out by the blood of God; they had no
debt to pay but that of obedience; but we had both a debt of obe-
dience tothe precepts, and a debt of suffering to the penalty, after
the fall. Whether the _hcl angels were confirmed by Christ, or no,
is a question: some thin; the were, from Colos. i. 20, where
“things in heaven” are said to be “reconciled ;” but some think,
that place signines no more than the reconciliation of things in
heaven, if meant of the angels, to things on earth, with whom they
were at enmity in the cause of their Sovereign; or the reconciliation
of things in heaven to God, is meant the glorified saints, who were
once in a state of sin, and whom the death of Christ upon the cross
reached, thou h dead long before. But if angels were confirmed by
Christ, it wasiy him not as a slain sacrifice, but as a sovereign Head
of the whole creation, a pointed by God to gather all things into
one; which some thin; to be the intendment of Eph. i. 10, where
all things, as well those in heaven, as those in earth, a.re said to be
“ gathered together in one, in Christ.” Where is a syllable in Scrip-
ture of his being crucified for angels, but only for sinners? Not
for the connrmatron of the one, but the reconciliation of the other;
so that the goodness whereby God continued those blessed spirits in
heaven, through the efiiisions of his grace, is a small thing to the
restoring us to our forfeited happiness, throu h the streams of Divine
blood. The reserving a man in life is a litge thing, and a smaller
benefit than the raising a man from death. The rescuing a man from
an ignominious punishment, lays a greater obligation than barely to
prevent him from committing a capital crime. The preserving a
man standing upon the top of a steeipohill, is more easy than to
bring a crippled and phthisical man, m the bottom to the to .
The continuance God gave to the angels, is not so signal a mark di

