on 'rrm eoommss or son. 268
his goodness as the deliverance he gave to us; since they were not
sunk into sin, nor by any crime fallen into misery.
2. His goodness in redemption is greater than any goodness ex-
pressed to the fallen angels. It is the wonder of his goodness to us,
that he was mindful of fallen man, and careless of fallen angels; that
he should visit man, wallowing .in death and blood, with the day-
spring from on high, and never turn the Egyptian darkness of devils
into cheerful day; when they sinned, Divine thunder dashed them
into hell; when man sinned, Divine blood waits the fallen creature
from his misery : the angels wallow in their own blood forever,
while Christ sis made partaker of our blood, and wallows in his
blood, that we might not forever corrupt in ours; they tumbled
down from heaven, and Divine goodness would not vouchsafe to
catch them; man tumbles down, and Divine oodness holds out a
hand drenched in the blood of Him, that was gem the foundations
of the world, to liii; us up (Heb. ii. 16). He spared not those di i-
fied spirits, when they revolted; and spared not unishing his gn
for dusty man, when he oifended; when he might as wel forever
have let man lie in the chains wherein he had entan led himself as
them. We were as fit objects of justice as they, and they as Ht ob-
jects of goodness as we; the were not more wretched by their fall
than we; and the povert ofy our nature rendered us more unable to
recover ourselves, than die dignity of theirs did them; they were
his Reuben, his first-born; the were his might, and the beginning
of his strength; yet those eldzr sons he neglected, to prefer the
yplunger; they were the prime and golden pieces of creation, not
en with oss matter, yet they lie under the ruins of their fall,
while man, iad in comparison of them, is refined for another world.
They seemed to be fitter ob'ects of Divine goodness, in regard of the
eminency of their nature above the human; one angel excelled in
endowments of mind and spirit, vastness of understan ing, greatness
of power, all the sons of men; they were more capable to praise
him, more ca able to serve him; and because of the acuteness of
their compregension, more able to have a due estimate of such a re-
demption, had it been afforded them; yet that goodness which had
created them so comely, wouldnot lay itself out in restoring the
beauty they had defaced. The promise was of bruising the serpent’s
head for us, not of lifting up the serpent’s head with us; their nature
was not assumed, nor any command given them to believe or repent;
not one devil spared, not one apostate spirit recovered, not one of
those eminent creatures restored; every one of them hath only a
prospect of misery, without any glimpse of recovery; they were
ruined under one sin, and we repaired under many. All His re-
deeming goodness was laid out upon man (Ps. cxliv. 3); “What is
man that thou takest knowledge of him; and the Son of man, that
thou makest account of him P" Making account of him above
angels; as they fell without any tempting them, so God would leave
them to rise, without an assisting them. I know the schools trouble
themselves to find out the reasons of this peculiarity of gr-aceto man,
and not to them; because the whole human nature fel , but only a
part of the angelical; the one sinned by mseduction, and the ot er

