i
O
  CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
by a sullenness, without ang' tempter; every angel sinned by his
own proper will, whereas A am’s posterity sinned by the will of the
first man, the common rootof all. God would deprive the devil of
any glory in the satisfaction of his envious desire to hinder man from
attainment and possession of that hap iness which himself had lost.
The weakness of man below the angeilical nature might excite the
Divine mercy; and since all the things of' the lower world were
created for man, God would not lose the honor of his works, by
losing the immediate end for which he hamed them. And finally,
because in the restoration of angels, there would have been only a
restoration of one nature, that was not comprehensive of the nature
of inferior things; but after all such conjectures, man must sit down,
'and acknowledge Divine goodness to be the only spring, without
any other motive. Since Infinite Wisdom could have contrived a
'way for redem tion for fallen angels, as well as for fallenman, and
restored both tlie one and the other; why might not Christ have as-
sumed their nature as well as ours into the unity of the Divine per-
son, and suffered the wrath of God in their nature for them, as well
as in his human soul for us? It is as conceivable that two natures
might have been assumed by the Son of God, as well as three. souls
be in man distinct, as some think there are.
3. To enhance this goodness yet higher; it was a greater goodness
to us, than was for a time manifested to Christ himselil To demon-
strate his goodness to man, in preventing his eternal ruin, he would
for a while withhold his goodness from his Son, by exposing his life
as the price of our ransom ; not only subjecting him to the derisions
of enemies, desertions of friends, and' malice of devils, but to the in-
expressible bitterness of his own wrath in his soul, as made an offer-
ing for sin. The particle so (John iii. 16), seems to intimate this
supremacy of ggodness; He “so loved the world, that he gave his
on y begotten n.” He so loved the world, that .he seemed for a
time not to love his Son in comparison of it, or egual with it. The
person to whom a. gift is given is, in that rega , accounted more
valuable than the gift or present made to him : thus God valued our
redemption above the worldly happiness of the Redeemer, and sen-
tenceth him to an humiliation on earth, in order to our exaltation in
heaven; he was desirous to hear him groaning, and see him bleed-
ing, that we might not groan under his frow-ns, .and bleed under his
.wrath; he s ared not him, that he might spare us; refused not to
strike him, dhat he might be well pleased with us; drenched his
sword in the blood of his Son, that it might not forever be wet with
ours, but that his goodness might forever   in our salvation ,
he was willing to have his Son made man, and ie, rather than man
‘should perish, who had delighted to ruin himself; he seemed to de-
grade him for a time from what he was.° But since he could not be
united to any but to an intellectual creature, he could not be united
to any viler and more sordid creature than the earthly nature of
man: and when this Son, in our nature, prayed that the cup might
#pass from him, Goodness would not sufer it, to show how it valued
~ ° Lingend de Euclmrist, pp. 84, 85.

