ON 'ms eoomvnss or con. 265
the manifestation of itself in the salvation of man, above the preser-
vation of the life of so dear a person. _
In particular, wherein this goodness ap ears:-
lst. The dist resolution to redeem, and the means appointed for
redemption, could have no other inducement but Divine goodness.
We cannot too highly value the merit of Christ; but we must not
so much extend the merit of Christ, as to draw a value t.o eclipse the
goodness of God; though we owe our redemption and the fruits of
it to the death of Christ, yetwe owe not the Bret resolutions of re~
demption, and assumption of our nature, the means of redemption,
to the merit of Christ. Divine goodness only, without the associa-
tion of any merit, not only of man, but of the Redeemer himself be-
gat the first purpose of our recovery; he was singled out, and pre-
estinated to be our Redeemer, before he took our nature to merit
001' redem tion. “God sent his Son,” is a frequent expression in
the Gos elpof St. John (John iii. 34; v. 24; xvii. 3). To what end
did God” send Christ, but to redeem? The purpose of redemption,
therefore, preceded the pitching upon Christ as the means an pro-
curing cause of it, i. e. of our actual redemption, but not of the re-
deeming lu'pose; the end is always in intention before the means.”
“ God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son ;” the
love of God to the world was first in intention, and the order of
nature, before the will of giving his Sonto the world. His intention
of saving was before the mission of a Saviour; so that this affection
rose, not from the merit of Christ, but the merit of Christ was directf
ed by this affection. It was the effect of it, not the cause. Nor was
the union of our nature with his merited by him; all his meritorious
acts were performed in our nature; the nature, therefore, wherein he
performed it, was not merited; that grace which was not, could not
merit what it was; he could not merit that humanity, which must
be asumed before he could merit anything for us, because all merit
for us must be offered in the nature which had offended. It is true
“ Christ gave himself,” but by the order of Divine goodness; he that
begat him, pitched upon him, and called him to this great work (Heb.
v. 5) ; he is therefore called “the Lamb of God,” as being set apart
by God to be a propitiating and appeasing sacrifice. He is the
“Wisdom of God, since from the Father he reveals the counsel and
order of redem tion. In this regard he calls God “ his God” in the
prophet (Isa. xliix. 4), and in the evangelist (John xx. 17); though
e was big with affection for the accomplishment, yet he came not
to do his “own will,”-but the will of Divine goodness; his own will
it was, too, but not principally, as being the first wheel in motion,
but subordinate to the eternal will of Divine bount . It was by the
will of God that he came, and bg his will he dranlg the dreggy cup
of bitterness. Divine justice lai “ upon him the iniquity of us all, '
but Divine goodness intended it for our rescue; Divine goodness
singled him oug and set him apart; Divine goodness invited him to
it; Divine goo ness commanded him to effect it, and put a law 1nto
his heart, to bias him in the performing of it; Divine goodness sent.
him, and Divine goodness moved justice to bruise him; and, after
4 Lessius.

