266 canmock ON rim .ui'rn.rBU'rEs.
his sacrifice, Divine goodness accepted him, and caressed him for it.
So earnest was it for our redemption, as to give out s cial and irre-
versible orders: death was commanded to be endure<i)by him for us,
and life commanded to be imparted by him to us (John x. 16, 18).
If God had not been the mover, but had received the proposal from
another, he might have heard it, but was not botmd to grant it; his
sovereign authority, was not lmder any obliglation to receive another’s
sponsiori for the miserable criminal. As C rist is the head of man,
so “ God is the head of Christ" (1 Cor. xi. 3); he did nothing but by
his directions, as he was not a Mediator, but by the constitution of
Divine goodness. As a “liberal man deviseth liberal things" (Isa.
ii. 8), so did a bountiful God devise abountiful act, wherein his kind-
ness and love as a Saviour appeared: he was possessed with the re-
solutions to manifest his goo ness in Christ, “in the beginning of
his way” (Prov.   22, 23), before he descended to the act of crea-
tion. This intention of goodnesspreceded his making that creature
man, who, he foresaw, would fall, and, by his fall, disjoint and en-
tangle the whole frame of the world, without such a provision.
2d. In God’s giving Christ to be our Redeemer, he gave the highest
gift that it was possible for Divine goodness to bestow. As there
IB not a. greater God than himself to be conceived, so there is not a
greater gift for this great God to present to his creatures: never did
od go farther, in any of his excellent (ferfections, than this. It is
such a dole that cannot be transcende with a choicer; he is, as it
were, come to the last mite of his treasure; and though he could
create millions of worlds for us, he cannot give a greater Son to us.
He could abound in the expressions of his power, in new creations
of worlds, which have not yet been seen, and in the lustre of his
wisdom in more stately structures; but if he should frame as many
worlds as there are mites of dust and matter in this, and make every
one of them as bright and glorious as the sun, though his power and
wisdom would be more signalized, yet his goodness could not, since
he hath not a choicer gift to bless those brighter worlds withal, than he
hath conferred upon this: nor can immense goodness contrive a
richer means to conduct those worlds to happiness, than he hath both
invented for this world, and presented it with. It cannot be im -
ined, that it can extend itself iarther than to give a gift e ual  
himself; a gift as dear to him as himself His wisdom, haid it stud-
ied millions of eternities (excuse the ex ression, since eternity ad~
mits of no millions, it being an interminable duration): it could have
found out no more to give; this goodness could ave bestowed
no more, and our necessit could not have required a greater of-
fering for our reliefl When God intended, in redemption, the
manifestation of his highest goodness, it could not be without the
donation of the choicest gift; as, when he would insure our comfort,
he swears “by himself’ because he cannot swear “by a greater
(Heb. vi. 13): so, when we would insure our happiness, he `ves us
his Son, because he cannot give a greater, being equal with iimselfl
Had the Father given himself in person, he had given one first in
order, but not greater in essence and lorious pertections: it could
have been no more than the life of Goi and should then have been

