ON rms: eoommss or son. 267
laid down for us; and so it was now, since the human nature did not
lubsist but in his Divine lpfrson.
1. It is a greater   t n worlds, or all things purchased by him.
What was this gift ut “the image of his person, and the brightness
of his glory” §Heb. i. 3)? What was this gift but one as rich as
eternal blesse ness could make him? What was this gift, but one
that possessed the fulness of earth, and the more immense riches of
heaven? It is a more valuable present, than if he presented us with
thousands of worlds of angels and inferior creatures, because his
person is incomparably greater, not only than all conceivable, but
inconceivable, creations; we are more 0 liged to him for it, than if
ne had made us angels of the highest rank in heaven, because it is a
gift of more value than the who e angelical nature, because he is an
infinite person, and therefore ininitelly transcends whatsoever is
finite, though of the highest dignity. he wounds of an Alrnight
God for us are a eater testimony of goodness, than if we had ah
the other riches ofrheaven and earth. This perfection had not ap-
peared in such an astonishing grandeur, had it pardoned us without
so rich a satisfaction; that had been pardon to our sin, not a God of
our nature. “God so loved the world” that he ,pardoned it, had not
sounded so great and so good, as God so love the world, that he
“gave his only-begotten Son.” Est aliguid ah Christo formosiu.s Ser-
valore. There is something in Christ more excellent and comely than
the ofiice of a Saviour; the tness of his person is more excellent,
than the salvation procured qiiyzahis death: it was a greater gift than
was bestowed upon innocent Adam, or the holy angels. In the cre-
ation, his goodness gave us creatures for our use: in our redemp-
tion, his goodness gives us what was dearest to him for our service,
our Sovereign in oiiice to benefit us, as well as in a royalty to gov-
ern u
s.
2. It was a greater gift, because it was his own Son, not an angel.
It had been a mighty goodness to have given one of the lofty sera-
phims; a. greater goodness to have given the whole corporation of
those glorious spirits fbr us, those children of the Most High: but
he gave that Son, whom he commands “ all the angels to worship”
Heb. i. 6), and all men to adore, and pay the “lowest homage to"
Ps. ii. 12,]); that Son that is to be honored by us, as we “honor the
ather” ( ohn v. 23), that Son which was his “delight” (Prov.  
30): his delights in the Hebrew, wherein all the delights of the
Father were athered in one, as well as of the whole creation ; and
not simply agen, but an only-begotten Son, ifpon which Christ lays
the stress with an em hasis (1 John   16). e had but one Son in
heaven or earth, one gon from an unviewable eternity, and that one
Son he gave for a degenerate world; this son he consecrated for “ ev-
ermore a Priest” (Heb. vii. 28£o “ The word of the oath makes the
Son ;” the peculiarity of his nship heightens the goodness of the
Donor. It was no meaner a person that he gave to em ty himself
of his glory, to fulfil an obedience for us, that we might he rendered
happy partakers of the Divine nature. Those that know the natural
a ection of a father to a son, must judge the affection of God the
Father to the Son infinitely greater, than the affection of an earthly

