268 caarmocx oN 'mn a'rr1usU'rEs.
.ather to tue son of his bowels. It must be an unparalleled goodnem,
to give up a Son that he loved with so ardent an affection, for the
'redemption of rebels: abandon a glorious Son to a dishonoralile
death, for the security of those that had violated the laws of right-
eousness, and endeavored to ull the sovereign crown from his head
Besides, being an only Son, all those aifections centered in him, which
in parents would have been divided among a multitude of children:
so, then, as it was a testimony of the highest faith and obedience in
“Abraham to otfer up his, only-begotten son to _God" (Heb. x1. 17);
so it was the triump of_D1vme goodness, to give so great, so dear
a péarson, for so little a thing as man; and for such a piece of nothing
an vanit , as a sinful world.
3. Andythis Son given to rescue us by his death. It was a gift to
us; for our sakes he descended from his throne, and dwelt on earth;
for our sakes he was “ made Hesh," and infirm flesh; for our sakes
he was “ made a curse,” and scorched in the furnace of his Father’s
wrath; for our sakes he went naked, armed only with his own
strength, into the lists of that combat with the devils, that led us
captive. Had he ggven him to be a leader for the conquest of some
earthly enemies, it ad been a great goodness to display his banners,
and bring us under his conduct; but he sent him to lay down his
life in the bitterest and most inglorious manner, and exposed him to
a cursed death for our redemption from that dreadful curse, which
would have broken us to utpieces, and irreparably have crushed us.
He gave -him to us, to s er for us as a man, and redeem us as a
God; to be a sacrifice to expiate our sin by translating the punish-
- ment upon himselii which was merited by us. Thus was he made
low to exalt us, and debased to advance us, “ made poor to enrich
us” (2 Cor. viii. 9); and eclipsed to brighten our sullied natiues, and
wounded, that he might be a physician for our languishments. He
was ordered to taste the bitter cup of death, that we might drink of
the rivers of immortal life and pleasures: to submit to the trailties
of the human nature, that we mi ht possess the glories of the divine:
he was ordered to be a sufferer, that we might be no longer captives;
and to pass through the Ere of Divine wrath, that he might purge
our nature from the dross it had contracted. Thus was the righteous
glen for sin, the innocent for criminals, the glory of heaven for the
gs of earth, and the immense riches of a Deity expended to re-
stock man.
4. And a Son that was exalted for what he had done for us by thc
order of Divine goodness. The exaltation of Christ was no less a
signal mark of his miraculous goodness to us, than of his affection to
him: since he was obedient by Divine goodness to die for us, his ad-
vancement was for his obedience to those orders. The name given
to him “ above every name” (Phil. ii. 8, 9), was a relpeated triumph
of this perfection; since his passion was not for imself, he was
wholl y innocent, but for us who were criminal. His advancement
was not only for himself' as Redeemer, but for us as redeemed:
Divine goodness centered in him, both in his cross and in his crown;
for it was for the “purging our sins, he sat down on the ri ht hand
of the Majesty on high’ (Heb. i. 3): and the whole blessed society

