on THE eoonivsss or son. _ 269
of rincipalities and powers in heaven admire this goodness of God,
and) ascribe to him “ honor, glory, and power” for advancing the
“Lamb slain" (Rev. v. 11-13). Divine goodness did not only give
him to us, but gave him power, riches, strength, and honor, for man-
ifesting this goodness to us, and opening the passa(ges for its fuller
conveyances to the sons of men. Had not God ha thoughts of a
perpetual goodness, he would not have settled him so near him, to
manage our cause, -and testified so much affection to him on our be-
half This goodness gave him to be debased for us, and ordered
him to be enthroned for us: as it gave him to usbleeding, so it
would give him to us triumphing; that as we have a share by grace
in the merits of his humiliation, we might partake also of the glories
of his coronation; that, from first to last, we may behold nothing but
the triumphs of Divine goodness to fallen man.
5. In bestowing this gift on us, Divine goodness gives whole God
to us. Whatsoever is great and excellent in the Godhead, the Father
gves us, by giving us is Son: the Creator gives himself to us in his
n Christ. In giving creatures to us, he gives the riches of earth;
in giving himself to us, he gives the riches of heaven, which sur-
mount a 1 understanding: it is in this gift he becomes our God, and
passeth over the title of all that he is for our use and benetit, that
every attribute in the Divine nature may be claimed by us; not to
be imparted to us whereb_v we may be deiiied, but em loyed for our
welfare, whereby we may be blessed. He gave himselfiin creation to
us in the image of his holiness; but, in redemption, he gave himself
in the image of his person: he would not only communicate the
goodness without him, but bestow upon us the infinite oodness of
his own nature; that that which was his own end and happiness
mi ht be our end and ha piness, mb. himselff By giving his Son,
heiath given himself; andhn both gifts he hath given all things to
us. The Creator of all things is eminently all things: “He hath
given all things into the hands of his Son’ (John iii. 35); and, by
consequence, given all things into the hands of his redeemed crea-
tures, by giving them Him to whom he gave all things; whatsoever
we were invested in by creation, whatsoever we were deprived of by
corruption, and more, he hath deposited in safe hands for our enjoy-
ment: and what can Divine goodness do more for us? What further
can it give unto us, than what it hath given, and in that gift designed
for us?
3d. This goodness is enhanced by considering the state of man in
the first transgression, and since. '
1. Man’s first transgression. If we should rip up every vein of
that first sin, should we find any want of wickedness to excite a just
indignation? What was there but ingratitude to Divine bounty,
and rebellion' against Divine sovereignty? The royalty of God was
attem t/ed; the supremacy of Divine knowledge above man’s own
knowlhdge envied; the riches of. goodness, whereb he lived and
breathed, slighted. There is a discontent with God’ u on an un-
reasonable sentiment, that God had denied a knowled)ge to him
which was his right and due, when there should have been an hum-
ble acknowledgment of that unmerited goodness, which had not only

