270 ` cnmnocx ON 'nm A'l'.l‘RIBU'I’ES.
given him a beinrr above other creatures, but placed him the goveb
nor and lord of those that were inferior to hun. What alienation
of his understanding was there from knowing God, and of his will
from loving him! A debauch of all his faculties; a spiritual adultery,
in preferring, not only one of God’s creatures, but one of his des-
pre-léate enemies, before him; thinking him a wiser counsellor than
nite Wisdom, and imagining him possessed with kinder affections
to him than that God who had newly created him. Thus he joins
in league with hell against heaven, with a fallen spirit against his
bountiful Benefactor, and enters into society with rebels that just
before commenced a war against his and their common Sovereign:
he did not only falter in, but cast oiii the obedience due to his Crea-
tor; endeavored to purloin his glory, and actuallyf murdered all those
that were virtually in his loins. “Sinentered into the world” by
him, “and death by sin, and passed upon all men" (Rom. v. 12),
taking them off hom their subjection to God, to be slaves to the
damned spirits, and heirs of their misery: and, after all this, he adds
a foul imputation on God, taxing him as the author of his sin, and
thereby stains the beauty of his holiness. But, notwithstanding all
this, God stops not up the flood-gates of his goodness, nor dot he
entertain fier resolutions against man, but brings forth a healing
promise; andy sends not an angel u n commission to reveal it to
im, but preaches it himself to this i`i>(i°lorn and rebellious creature
(Gen. iii. 15).
2. Could there be anything in this fallen creature to allure God to
the expression of his oodness? Was there any ood action in all
his carriage that coulf plead for a re-admission of him to his former
state? Was there one good quality left, that could be an orator to
persuade Divine goodness to such a acious procedure? Was there
any moral goodness in man, after this debauch, that might be an
ob_]ect of Divine love? What was there in him, that was not rather
a provocation than an allurement? Could you expect that any per~
fection in God should find a motive in this ungrateful apostate to
open a mouth for him, and be an advocate to support him, and bring
him off from a just tribimal? or, after Divine goodness had be n to
pity and plead for man, is it not wonderful that it should not cggcon-
tinue the plea, after it found man’s excuse to be as black as his crime
(Gen. iii. 12%, and his carriage, upon his examination, to be as dis-
obliging as is Hrst revolt? It might well be expected, that all the
perfections in the Divine nature would have entered into an associa-
tion eternally to treat this rebel according to his deserts. What at-
tractives were there in a silly worm, much less in such complete
wickedness, inexcusable enmity, infamous rebellion, to design a Re-
deemer for him, and such a person as the Son of God to a fleshy
body, an eclipse of glory, and an ignominious cross? The meanness
of nian was further from alluring God to it, than the dignity of
an e s.
§. Was there not a world of demerit in man, to animate grace as
well as wrath against him? We were so far from deserving the
opening any streams of goodness, that we had merited floods of de-
vouring wrath. What were all men but enemies to God in a high

