oN rm: eoonsnss or Goo. ' 271
manner ? Every oifence was infinite, as being committed against
a being of infinite dignity; it was a stroke at the very being o God.,
a resistance of all his attributes; it would degrade him Hom the
hei ht and perfection of his nature; it would not, by its good will,
511.gif God to be God. If he that hates his brother is a murderer of
his brother (1 John iii. 15), he that hates his Creator is a murderer
of the Deity, and every “carnal mind is enmiglto God” (Rom. viii.
7): every sin envies him his authority, by brea 'ng his precept; and
envies him his goodness, by defacing the marks of it: every sin corn-
prehends in it more than men or angels can conceive: that God who
only hath the clear apiprehensions of his own dignity, hath the sole
clear a prehensions o sin’s malignity. All men were thus by na-
ture: tllbse that sinned before the coming ofthe Redeemer had been
in a state of sin; those that were to come aher him would be in a
state of sin by their birth, and be criminals as soon as ever they were
creatures. All men, as well the glorined, as those in the flesh at the
coming of the Redeemer, and those that were to be born after, were
considered in a state of sin by God, when he bruised the Redeemer
for them; all were filthy and unworthy of the ey; of God; all had
employed the faculties of their souls, an the mem rs of their bodies,
which they enjoyed by his oodness, against the interest of his glory.
Every rational creature   made himself a slave to those creatures
over whom he had been appointed a lord, subjected himself' as a
servant to his inferior, and strutted as a supterior against his liberal
Sovereign, and by every sin rendered himse more a child of Satan,
and enemy of God, and more worthy of the curses of the law, and the
torments of hell. Was it not, now, a mighty goodness that would
surmount those high mountains of demerit, an e evate such creatures
by the depression of his Son? Had we been possessed of the highest
holiness, a reward had been the natural effect of goodness. It was
not possible that God should be unkind to a righteous and innocent
creature; his grace would have crowned that which had been so
agreeable to him. He had been a denier of himseli, had he num-
bered innocent creatures in the rank of the miserable; but to be kind
to an enemy, to run counter to the vastness of demerit in man, was
a superlative goodness, a goodness triumphing above all the provo-
cations of men, and pleas of justice: it was an abounding goodness
of grace; “ where sin abounded, grace did much more aboun ” (Rom.
v. 20), énspsnsqlaasuaev; it swelled above the heights of sin, and tri-
umphed more than all his other attributes.
4. Man was reduced' to the lowest condition. Our crimes had
brought us to the lowest calamity; we were brought to the dust, and
prepared for hell. Adam had not the boldness to request, and there-
ore we may jud e he had not the least hopes of pardon; he War
sunk under Wrath, and could have expected no better an entertain»
ment than the ternpter, whose solicitations he submitted to. We had
cast the diadem from our heads, and lost all our original excellency;
we were lost to our own happiness, and lost to our Creator’s service,
when he was so kind as to send his Son to seek us (Matt. xviii. 11),
and so liberal as to expend his blood for our c1u~e and preservation
How great was that goodness that would not abandon us in our mis

