272 CHARNOCK ON 'ms srrnmuras.
ery, but remit our crimes, and rescue our persons, and ransom our
souls by so great a price from the rights of justice, and horrors of
hell, we were so fitted for?
5. Every age multiplied provocations; every age of the world
proved more degenerate. ' he traditions, which were purer and
more lively amon Adam’s immediate posterity, were more dark
among his f1u~ther descendants; idolatry, whereof we have no marks
in the old world before the deluge, was frequent afterwards in every
nation: not only the knowledge of the true God was lost, but the
natural reverential thoughts of a Deity were expelled. Hence gods
were dubbed according to men’s humors; and not only human pas-
sions, but brutish vices, ascribed to them: as b the fall we were
become less than men, so we would fanc God no better than a
beast, since beasts were worshipped ss god; (Rom. i. 21); yea, fan-
cied God no better than a. devil, since that destroyer was worshippxed
instead of the Creator, and a homage paid to the powers of hell t at
had ruined them, which was due to the goodness of that Benefactor,
who had made them and preserved them in the world. -The vilest
creatures were deified; reason was debased below common sense;
and men adored one end of a “1og," while they “ warmed them-
selves with the other” (Isa. xliv. 14, 16, 17); as if that which was
ordained for the kitchen were a. fit representation for God in the tem-
ple. Thus were the natural notions of a Deity depraved; the whole
world drenched in idolatry; and though the Jews were free from
that gross abuse of God, yet they were sunk also into loathsome su-
perstitious, when the goodness of God brought in his designed Re
eemer and redemption into the world.
6. The impotence of man enhanceth this goodness. Our own eye
did scarce pity us, and it was impossible for our own hands to re-
lieve us; we were insensible of our misery, in love with our death;
we courted our chains, and the ‘noise of our fettering lusts were our
music, “serving divers lusts and pleasures” (Tit. iii. 3). Our lusts
were our pleasures; Satan’s yoke was as delightful to us to bear, as
to him to impose: instead of being his opposers in his attempts
against us, we were his voluntary seconds, and every whit as wil-
ling to embrace, as he was to propose, his ruining temptations. As
no man can recover himself from death, so no man can recover him-
self from wrath; he is as unable to redeem, as to create himself; he
might as soon have stripped himself of his being, as put an end to
his misery; his captivity would have been end ess, and his chains
remediless, for anything he could do to knock them oft; and deliver
himself; he was too much in love with the sink of sin, to leave
wallowing in it, and under too powerful a hand, to cease frying in
the flames of wrath. As the law could not be obeyed by man, after
a corru t principle had entered into him, so neither could justice be
satisfied) by him after his transgression. The sinner was indebted,
but bankrupt; as he was unable to pay a mite of that obedience he
owed to the prece t, because of his enmity, so he was unable to sat-
isfy what he owerfto the penalty, because of his feebleness: he was
as much without love to observe the one, as “without strength” to
bear the other . he could not, because of his “ enm‘ty, be su Ject to

