on rm: ooonssssor eon.»\ 278
the law” (Rom. viii. xor compensate for his sin, because he was
“without strength” ( m. v. 6). His strength to offend was great;
but to deliver himself a mere nothing. Repentance was not a thin
Known b man after the fall, till he had hopes of redemption; and
if he hady known and exercised it, what compensation are the tears
of a malefactor for an injury done to the crown, and attempting the
life of his prince? How great was Divine goodness, not on y to
pity men in this state, but to provide a. strong Redeemer for theml
“O Lord, m strength, and my Redeemer l” said the Psalmist (Ps.
Xix. I4): wlilen he found out a Redeemer for our misery, he found
out a strength for our impotency. To conclude this: behold the
“goodness of God,” when we had thus unhandsomely dealt with
him; had nothing to allure his goodness, multitudes of provocations
to incense him, were reduced to a condition as low as could be, fit
to be the matter of his scoffs, and the sport of Divine justice, and so
weak that we could not repair our own ruins; then did he open a
fountain of fresh goodness in the death of his Son, and sent forth
such delightful streams, as in our original creation we could never
have tasted ; not only overcame the resentments of a provoked jus-
tice, but magnified itself by our lowness, and strengthened itself by
our weakness. His goodness had before created an innocent, but
here it saves a maleiwtorg and sends his Son to die for us, as if the
Holy of holies were the criminal, and the rebel the innocent. It had
been a, pompous goodness to have given him as a king; but a good-
ness of greater grandeur to ex ose him as a sacrifice for slaves 'and
enemies. Had Adam remained innocent, and proved thankful for
what he had received, it had been great goodness to have brought
him to glory; but to bring filthy and rebellious Adam to it, sur-
mounts, by inexpressible degrees, that sort of goodness he had ex-
perimented before; since it was not from a light evil, a tolerable
curse unawares brought upon us, but from the yoke we had willing-
ly submitted to, from the power of darkness we had courted, and the
urnace of wrath we had indled for ourselves. What are we dead
dogs, that he should behold us with so gracious an eye? This good-
ness is thus enhagced, if you consider the state of man in his first
transgression, an after.
4tlii This goodness further appears in the high advancement of our
nature, after it had so highly offended. By creation, we had an
aflinity with animals in our bodies, with angels in our spirits, with
God in his image; but not with God in our nature, till the incarna-
tion of the Redeemer. Adam, by creation, was the son of God
(Luke iii. 38), but his nature was not one with the person of God:
he was his son, as created by him, but had no aiiinity to him by vir-
tue of union with him: but now man doth not only see his nature in
multitudes of men on earth, but, by an astonishing goodness, be-
holds his nature united to the Deity in heaven: that as he was the
son of God by creation, he is now the brother of God by redemp-
tion; for with such a title doth that Person, who was the Son of God
as well as the Son of man, honor his disciples (J ohn xx. 17): and
because he is of the same nature with them, he “is not ashamed to
call them brethren” (Heb.   11). Our nature, which was infinitely
VOL. IL*-'18
\

