274 cn.u¢Nocx ON 'rua ATTRIBUTES.
distant from, and below the Deity, now makes one person with the
Son of God. What man sinfiil y as ired to, God ath graciously
granted, and more: man aspired to a likeness in knowledge, and God
ath granted him an affinity in union. It had been astonishing gplod-
ness to angelize our natures; but in redemption Divine goo ess
hath acted higher, in a sort to deify our natures. In creation, our
nature was exalted above other creatures on earth ; in our redemp-
tion, our nature is exalted above all the host of heaven: we were
higher than the beasts, as creatures, but “lower than the angels"
(Ps. viii. 5); but, by the incarnation of the Son of God, our na-
ture is elevated many steps above them. After it had sunk itself
by corruiption below the bestial nature, and as low as the dia-
bolical, t e “fulness of the Godhead dwells in. our nature bodily"
$001. ii. 93, but never in the angels, angelically. . The Son of God
escende to digni? our nature, by assuming it; and ascended
with our nature to ave it crowned above those standing monu-
ments of Divine ower and goodness (Eph. i. 20, 21). That Per-
son that descended) in our nature into the grave, and in the same
nature was raised up again, is, in that same nature, set at the
right hand of God 1n eaven, “far above all principalitgv, and
p)ower, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named."
ur refined clay, by an indissoluble union with this Divine Per-
son, is honored to sit forever upon a throne above all the tribes
of sera hims and cherubims; and the Person that wears it, is the
head oi? the good angels, and the conqueror of the bad; the one
are put under his feet, and the other commanded to adore him,
“that purged our sins in our nature” (Heb. i. 3, 6): that Divine
Person in our nature receives adoration from the angels; but the
nature bf man is not ordered to pay any homage and adorations
to the an els. How could Divine goodness, to man, more mag-
nify itself§ As we could not have a lower descent than we had
by sin, how could we have a higher ascent than by a substan-
tial participation of a divine life, in our nature, in the unity of a
Divine Person? Our earthly nature is joined to a heavenly Person;
our undone nature united to “ one equal with God" (Phil. ii. 6). It
may truly be said, that man is God, which is ininitely more glori-
ous for us, than if it could be said, man is an angel. If it were
goodness to advance our innocent nature above other creatures, the
advancement of our degenerate nature above angels deserves a
higher title than mere oodness. It is a more gracious act, than if
all men had been translormed into the pure spiritual nature of the
loftiest cherubims.
5th. This goodness is manifest in the covenant of grace made
with us, whereby we are freed from the rigor of `that of works.
God mivht have insisted upon the terms of the old covenant, and
re uiredn of man the improvement of his original stock; but God
ha(ih condescended to lower terms, and offered man more gracious
methods, and mitigated the rigor of the Hrst, by the sweetness of
the second. °`
1. It is goodness, that he should condescend to make another
covenant with man. To stipulate with innocent and righteous

