A ON 'mem eoommss or con. 275
Adam for his obedience, was a stoo of his sovereignty; thou h
he gave the precept as a sovereign Iyird, yet in his covenanting, he
seems to descend to some kind of equality with that dust and ashes
with whom the treated. Absolute sovereigns do not usually cove-
nant with their people, but exact obedience and duty, without
binding themselves to bestow a reward; and if they intend any,
they reserve the purpose in their own breasts, without treating their
subjects with a solemn declaration of it. There was no obligation
on God to enter into the 'first covenant, much less, after the viola-
tion of the Hrst, to the settlement of a new. If God seemed in
some sort to equal himself to man in the first, he seemed to descend
below himself in treatin with a rebel u n more condescending
terms in the second. ~ If his covenant witliminnocent Adam was a
stoop of his sovereignty, this with rebellious Adam seems to be a
stripping himself of his majesty in favor of his goodness; as if -his
happiness depended upon us, and not ours upon him. It is a humilia-
tion of himself to behold the things in heaven, the glorious angels, as
well as things on earth, mortal men (Ps. cxiii. 6); much more to
bind himself in gracious bonds to the glorious angels; and much
more if to rebel man. In the Hrst covenant there was much of
sovereignty as well as goodness; in the second~ there is less of sover-
eignty, and more of grace: in the first there was a righteous man
for a holy God; in t e second a (paolluted creature for a ure and
ppsovoked God: in the first he hol his see tre in his hand: to rule
' subjects; in the second he seems to lay by his see tre, to court
and espouse a beg r §Hosea ii. 18-20): in the first he is a Lord;
in the second a husiaan ; and binds himself upon gracious condi-
tions to become a debtor. How should this goodness till us with an
humble astonishment, as it did Abraham, when he “fell on his
face," when he heard God speakigg of making a covenant with
him! (Gen. xvii. 2, 3). And if G speaking to Israel out of the
fire, and making them to hear his voice out of heaven, that he
might instruct them, was a consideration whereby Moses would
heighten their admiration of Divine goodness, and engage their
affectionate obedience to him (Dent. iv. 32, 86, 40); how much more
admirable is it for God to speak so kindly to us t rough the acify-
ing blood’ of the covenant, that silenced the terrors of the ol}d, and
settled the tenderness of the new I
2. His goodness is seen in the nature and tenor of the new cove-
nant. There arc in this richer streams of love and pity. The lan-
guage of one was, Die, if thou sin; that of the other, Live, if
thou believest ze the old covenant was founded upon the obedience
of man ; the new one is not founded upon the inconstancy of man’s
will, but the firmness of Divine love, and the valuable merit of
Christ. The head of the first covenant was human and mutable;
the Head of the second is divine and immutable. The curse due
to us by the breach of the first, is taken off by the indulgence of
the second: we are by it snatched from the jaws of the law, to be
wrapped up in the bosom of grace (Rom. viii. 1). “ For 'ou are
not under the law, but under grace” (Rom. vi. 14); from the curse
° Turreti, Ser. p. 83.

