276 CHARNOCK ON THE A'ITRIBU‘I'E8.
and condemnation of the law, to the sweetness and forgiveness of
grace. Christ bore the one, being “made a curse for us” (Gal.  
13), that we might enjo the sweetness of the other; b this we are
Drought from Mount gdnai, the mount of terror, tc ‘g/lount Sion,
the mount of sacrifice, the type of the great Sacrifice (Heb. xii. 18,
22). That covenant brought in death upon one offence, this' cove-
nant offers life after many offences (Rom. v. 16, 17 ): that involves
us in a curse, and this enricheth us with a blessing; the breaches
of that expelled us out of Paradise, and the embracin of this ad--
mits us into heaven. This covenant demands, and agmits of that
repentance whereof there was no mention in the first; that de
manded obedience, not repentance upon a failure; and though the
exercise of it had been never so deep in the fallen creature, nothing
of the law’s severity had been remitted by any virtue of f it. Again,
the first covenant demanded exact righteousness, but conveyed no
cleansing virtue, upon the contracting any filth. The irst demands
a. continuance in t e righteousness conferred in creation; the sec'
ond imprints a gracious heart in regeneration. “I will pour clean
water upon you; I will put a new spirit within you,” was the voice
of the second covenant, not of the first. Again, as to pardon:
Adam’s covenant was to punish him, not to pardon him, if he fell;
that threatened death upon transgression, this remits it; that was
an act of Divine sovereignty, declaring the will of God; this is an
act of Divine grace, assing an act of oblivion on the crimes of the
creature: that, as it Idemanded no repentance u(pon a failure, so it
promised no mercy upon guilt; that convene our sin, and con-
emned us for it; this clears our guilt, and comforts us under it.
The tirst covenant related us to God as a Judge; every transgres-
sion' against it forfeited his indulgence as a Father: the second
delivers us from God as a condemning Judge, to bring us under
his wing, as an affectionate Father; in the one there was a dreadful
frown to scare us; in the other, a healing wing to cover and re-
lieve us. Again, in regard of righteousness: that demanded our
performance of a righteousness in and by ourselves, and our own
strength; this demands our accggtance of a righteousness higher
than ever the standing angels h ; the righteousness of the first
covenant was the righteousness of a man, the righteousness of the
second is the righteousness of a God (2 Cor. v. 21). Again, in re-
gard of that obedience it demands: it exacts not of us, as a ne-
cessary condition, the perfection of obedience, but the sincerity of
obedience; an uprightness in our intention, not an unspottedness in
our action; an integrity in our aims, and an industry in our com-
pliance with divine precepts: “Walk before me, and be thou
perfect” (Gen. xvii. 1); 11. e. sincere. What is hearty in our actions,
1S' accepted; and what is defective, is overlooked, and not charged
upon us, because of the obedience and righteousness of our Surety.
'lhe first covenant rejected all our services after sin; the services of
a person under the sentence of death, are but dead services: this ac-
cepts our imperfect services, after faith in it; that administered no
strength to obey, but supposed it; this supposeth our inability to
obey, and confers some strength for it: “I will put my spirit

