ON THE eoomrnss or son. ' 277
within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes” (Ezek. xxxvi.
27). Again, in regard of the promises: the old covenant had good,
but the new hath “better promises” (Heb. viii. rdf), of justification
after guilt and sanctiiication after filth, and glo ` cation at last of
the whole man. In the first, there was provision against guilt, but
none for the removal of it: provision against filt , but none for
the cleansing of it; promise of happiness implied, but not so eat
a one as that “life and immortality’ in heaven, “brought to éhtght
by the gospel” (2 Tim. i. 10). Why said to be “brought to light
by the pel ?” because it was not only buried, upon the fall of man
under tigscurses of the law, but it was not so obvious to the con-
ceptions of man in his innocent state. Life indeed was implied to
be promised upon his standing, but not so glorious an immortality
disclosed, to be reserved for him, if he stood: as it is a covenant of
better promises, so a covenant of sweeter comforts; comforts more
choice, and comforts more durable; an “everlasting consolation,
and a good hope” are the fruits of “grace,” i. e. the covenant of
grace (2 Thess. Li. 16). In the whole there is such a love disclosed,
as cannot be e?ressed; the a ostle leaves it to every man’s mind
to conceive it, ` he could, “ Wphat manner of love the Father hath
bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God"
(1 John   1). It instates us in such a manner of the love of God
as he bears to his Son, the image of his erson (John xvii. 23):
{‘ That the world may know that thou hastioved them, as thou hast
oved me. ’ °
3. This goodness appears in the choice gift of himself which he
hath made over in this covenant (Gen. xvii. 7). You know how it
runs in Scripture: “I will be their God, and they shall be my peo-
p1e” (Jer. xxxii. 38): a propriety in the Deity is made over by it.
As he gave the blood of his Son to seal the covenant, so he gave
himself as the blessinfr of the covenant; “ He is not ashamed to be
called their God" (Heh. Xi. 16). Though he be ehvhohed with mu-
lions of angels, and presides over them in an inexpressible glory, he
is not ashamed of his condescensions to man, and to pass over him-
self as the propriety of his people, as well as to take them to be his.
Itis a diminution ofthe sense of the place, to understand it of God,
as Creator; what reason was there for God to be ashamed of the ex-
pressions of his power, wisdom, goodness, in the works of his hands?
ut we might have reason to think there might be some ground in
God to be ashamed of making himself over in a. deed of gift to a
mean worm and Hlthv rebel; this might seem a disparagement to
his majesty; but God is not ashamed ofa title so mean, as the God
of his despised people; ~a title below those others, of the “Lord of
hosts, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders, riding
on the wings of the wind, walking in the circuits of heaven." He is
no more ashamed of this title of being our God, than he is of those
other that sound more glorious ; he would rather have his greatness
veil to his goodness, than his goodness be confined lay his majesty;
he is not only our God, but our God as he is the Go of Christ: e
is not ashamed to be our propriety, and Christ is not ashamed to own
his people in a partnership with him in this propriety (John xx.

