D
278 cnaiuvocx ON THE Arrnrsurss.
17): “Iascend to my God, and your God." This of God’s  
our God, is the quintessence of the covenant, the soul _of all the
promises: in this he hath romised whatsoever is infinite in him,
whatsoever is the glory and) ornament of his nature, for our use; not
a part of him, or one single perfection, but the whole vigor and
strength of all. As he is not a God without infinite wisdom, and in-
finite power, and infinite goodness, and infinite blessedness, &c., so
he passes over, in this covenant, all that which presents him as the
most adorable Being to his creatures; he will be to them as great,
as wise, as powerful, as good as he is in himself; and the assuring
us, in this covenant, to be our God, imports also that he will do as
much for us, as we would do for ourselves, were we furnished with
the same oodness, power, and wisdom : in being our God, he testi-
fies it is ai one, as if we had the same perfections in our own power
to employ for our use; for he being possessed with them, it is as
much as if we ourselves were possessed with them, for our own ad-
vantage, according to the rules of wisdom, and the several conditions
we pass through or his glory. But this must be taken with a rela-
tion to that wisdom, which he observes in his proceedings with usas
creatures, and according to the several conditions we ass through
for his glory. Thus God’s being ours is more than if ad) heaven and
earth were ours besides; it is more than if we were fully- our own,
and at our own dis ose; it makes “all things that God hath ours”
(1 Cor.   22); and therefore, not only all thingls he hath created,
but all things that he can create; not only all t ings that he hath
contrived, but all things that he can contrive: for in being ours, his
power is ours, his possible power as well as his active power; his
sewer, whereb{ he can effect more than he hath done, and his wis-
om, whereby e can contrive more than he hath done; so that if
there were need of employing his power to create many worlds for
our good, he would not stick at it; for if he did, he would not be
our od, in the extent of his nature, as the promise intimat/es. What
a rich goodness, and a fulness of boung, is there in this short ex-
pression, as full as the expression of a od can make it, to be intelli-
gible, to such creatures as we are!
4. This goodness is further manifest in the confirmation of the
covenant. His goodness did not only condescend to make it for our
happiness, after we had made ourselves miserable, but further conde-
scended to   it in the solemnest manner for our assurance, to
overrule all the despondencies unbelief could raise up in our souls.
The reason why he confirmed it by an oath, was to show the immu-
tability of his glorious counsel, not to tie himselfto keep it, for his
word and promise is in itself as immutable as his oath; they were
“two immutable things, his word and his oath," one as unchange-
able as the other; but for the strength of our consolation, that it
might have no reason to shake and totter (Heb. vi. 17, 18): he would
condescend as low as was possible for a God to do for the satisfaction
ofthe dejectcd creature. Vhcn the first covenant was broken, and
it was impossible for man to fulfil the terms of it, and mount to hap-
piness thereby, he makes another; and, as if we had reason to dm-
trust him in the first, he solemnly ratifies it in a higher manner than

