/
ON 'run eoomrnss or con. . 279
he had done tne other, and swears by himself that he will be true to
it, not so much out of an election of himself; as the object of the
oath (Heb. vi. 13): “Because he could not swear by a greater, he
swears by himself ;" whereby the a tle clearly intimates, that Di-
vine goodness was raised to such allifight for us, that if there had
been anything else more sacred than himself, or that could have
punished him if he had broken it, that he would have swom by, to
silence an difiidence in us, and confirm us in the realit of his in-
tentions. liow if it were a mighty mark of goodness for (god to stoop
to a covenanting with us, it was more for a sovereign to bind him-
selfso solemnly to be our debtor in a romise, as well as he was our
sovereign in the preeetpt, and stoop so lbw in it to satisfy the distrust
of that creature, that eserved for ever to lie soaking in his own
ruins, for not believing his bare word. What absolute prince would
ever stoop so low as to article with rebellious subjects, whom he
could in a moment set his foot upon and crush ; much less counten-
ance a causeless distrust of his goodness by the addition of his oath
and thereby bind his own hands, which were unconfined before, and
free to do what he pleased with them?
5. This goodness of' God is remarkable also in the condition of this
covenant which is faith. This was the easiest condition, in its own
nature, that could be imagined; no difficult in it but what proceeds
from the pride of man's nature, and the obstinacy of his will. It
was not impossible in itself; it was not the old condition of perfect
obedience. It had been mighty goodness toset us up again upon our
old stock, and restore us to the tenor and condition of the covenant
of works, or to have required the burdensome ceremonies of the law.
Nor is it an exact _knowledge he requires of us; all men’s under-
standings being of-a different size, they had not been capable of this.
It was the most reasonable condition, in regard of the excellency of
the things proposed, and the effects following upon it; nay, it was
uecessarv. It had been a want of goodness to himself and his own
nonor; he had cast that oil; had he not insisted on this condition of
faith, it being the lowest he could condescend to with a salvo for his
glory. And it was a goodnew to us; it is nothing else he requires,
ut a willingness to accept what he hath cdntrived and acted for us:
and no man can be happy against his will; without this belief, at
least, man could never voluntarily have arrived to his happiness.
The goodness of God is evidenced in that.
[lst] It is an easy condition, not impossible. 1. It was not the
condition of the old covenant. The condition of that was an entire
obedience to every prece t with a man’s whole strength, and with-
out §.ny flaw or crack. gut the condition of the evangelical cove-
nant is a sincere, though weak, faith; He hath suited this covenant
to the misery of man’s fallen condition; he considers our weakness,
and that we are but dust, and therefore exacts not 'of us an entire,
but a sincere, obedience. Had God sent Christ to expiate the crime
of Adam, restore him to his paradise estate, and repair in man the
ruined image of holiness, and after this to have renewed the coven-
ant of works for the future, and settled the same condition in exact-
ing a complete obedience for the time to come; Divine goodness had

