280 - cniuznocx ON rms A'I'I'RIBUTES.
been above any accusation, and had deserved our highest admiration
in the pardon of former transgressions, and giving out to us our
first stock. But Divine goodness took larger strides: he had tried
our irst condition, and found his mutable creature quickly to vid-
late it: had he demanded the same now, it is likely it had met with
the same issue as before, in man’s disobedience and fall; we should
have been as men, as Adam (Hos. vi. 7), “transgressing the coven-
ant ;” and then we must have lain groaning under our disease, and
wallowing in om' blood, unless Christ had come to die for the expi-
ation of our new crimes; for every trans ession had been a vio.a-
tion of that covenant, and a. forfeiture of-rour right to the benefits
of it. If we had broke it but in one tittle, we had rendered our-
selves incapable to fulnl it for the future; that one trans emion
had stood as a bar against the pleas of aRer-obedience. lgirit God
hath wholly laid that condition aside as to us, and settled that
of faith, more easy to be performed, and to be renewed by us. It
is infinite grace in him, that he will accept of faith in us, instead of
that perfect obedience he required of us in the covenant of works.
2. It is easy, not like the burdensome ceremonies appointed under
the law. He exacts not now the legal obedience, expensive sacri-
ficcs, troublesome puriiications, and abstinences, that “yoke of bon-
dage” (Gal. v. 1) which they were “ not able to bear” (Acts xv. 10).
He treats us not as servants, or children, in their nonage, under the
elements of the world, nor requires those innumerable bodily exer-
cises that he exacted of them : he demands not “ a thousand of lambs,”
and “rivers of oil ;” but he requires a sincere confession and re ent-
ance, in order to our absolution; an “ unfeigned faith,” in orcfhr to
our blessedness, and elevation to a lorious life.. He requires only
that we should believe what he saith, and have so good an opinion
of his goodness and veracity, as to persuade ourselves of the reality
of his intentions, confide in his word, and rel u on his romise,
cordially embrace his crucified Son, whom he hath set forth as the
means of our hap iness, and have a sincere respect to all the dis-
coveries of his willl What can be more easy than this? Though
some in the days of the _apostles, and others since have endeavored
to introduce a multitude of legal burdens, as if they envied God the
expressions of his goodness, or thought him guilty of too much re-
missness, in taking off the yoke, and treating man too favorably.
3. Nor is it a clear knowledge of every revelation, that is the condition
of this covenant. God in his kindness to man hath made revelations
of himself but his goodness is manifested in obliging us to believe
him, not fully to understand him. He hath made them, by suiiicient
testimonies, as clear to our faith, as they are incomprehensible to our
reason: he hath revealed a Trinity of Persons, in their distinct offices
in the business pf redemption, without which revelation of a Trinity
we could not have a right notion and scheme of redeeming grace.
But since the clearness of men’s understanding is sullied by the fall,
and hath lost its wings to fly up to a knowledge of such sublime
things as that ol the Trinity, and other mysteries of the Christian
religion, God hath manifeste his goodness in not obliging us to un-
derstand them but to believe them; and hath given us reason enough

