os 'mn eoonnnss or Gov. 281
to believe it to be' his revelation, (both from the nature of the reve~
lation itself, and the way and manner of ropagating it, which is
wholly divine, exceeding all the methods ol? human arti though he
hath not extended our understandings to a ca city to now them,
and render a reason of every mystery. He did)i1ot re uire of every
Israelite, or of any of them that were stim by the (fiery serpents,
that the should understand, or be able to discourse of the nature
and qualities of that brass of which the serpent upon the pole was
made, or bfy what art that serpent was formed, or in what manner
the sight o it did operate in them for their cure; it was enough that
they id believe the institution and precept of God, and that their
own cure was assured by it: it was enough if they cast their eyes
upon it according to the direction. The understan ings of men are
o several sizes and elevations, one higher than another: if the con-
dition of this covenant had been a greatness of knowledge, the most
acute men had only enjoyed the benefits of it. But it is` "faith,"
which is as easy to be performed by the ignorant and simple, as by
the strongest and most towering mind: it is that which is within the
compass of every man’s understanding. God did not re uire that
every one within the verge of the covenant should be ablle to dis-
course of it to the reasons of men; he required not that every man
should be a philosopher, or an orator, but a believer. What could
be more easy than to lift up the e e to the brazen serpent, to be
cured of a fiery sting? What could be more facile than a glance,
which is done without any pain, and in a moment? It is a condition
may be performed by the weakest as well as the strongest: could
those that were bitten in the most vital part cast u their eyes, thouglh
at the last gasp, they would arise to health by the expulsion of t e
venom.
[2d.] As it is easy so it is reasonable. Repent and believe, 15
that which is required by Christ and the apostles for the enjoyment
of the kingdom of heaven. It is very reasonable that things so great
and glorious, so beneficial to men, and revealed to them by so sound
an authority, and an unerrinv truth, should be believed. The ex-
eellency of the thing disclosed could admit of no lower a condition
than to be believed and embraced. There is a sort of faith, that is
a natural condition in everything: all religion in the world, though
never so false, depends upon a sort or it; for unless there be a be~
lief of future things, there would never be a hope of good, or a fear
of evil, the two great hinges upon which religion moves. In all
kinds of learning, many things must be believed before a progress
can be made. Belief of one another is necessary in all acts of hu
man life; without which human society would be unlinked and dis-
solved. What is that faith that God re uires of us in this covenant,
but a willingness of soul to take God (lor our God, Christ for our
Mediator, and the procurer of our happiness Sltev. xxii. 17)? What
prince could require less upon an promise e makes his subjects,
than to be believed as true, and depended on as good; that they
should accept his pardon, and other gracious offers, and be sincere
in their allegiance to him, avoiding all things that may offend him,
and pursuing all things that may please him? Thus God, by so

