I
282 cnmsocx ON 'rms A'I‘I'RIBU'1'F8.
small and reasonable a condition as faith, lets in the fruits of Christ’¢
death into our soul, and wraps us up in the fruition of all the privi-
leges purchased by it. So much he hath condescended in his good-
ness, that u on so slight a condition we may plead his promise, and
humbly challenge, by virtue of the covenant, those good things he
hath promised in his word. It is so reasonable a condition, that if
God did not require it in the covenant of grace, the creature were
Jbliged to perform it: for the publishing any truth from God, natu-
rally calls or credit to be given it by the creatine, and an entertain-
ment of it in practice. Could you offer a more reasonable condi-
tion yourselves, had it been left to your choice? Should a rince
proclaim a pardon to a (prodigiite wretch, would not all the worlld cry
shame of him, if he di not elieve it upon the highest assurances?
and if ingenuity did not make him sorr for his crimes, and careful
in the duty of a subject, surely the worlll would cry shame of such
a person.
3d.] It is a'necessary condition. 1. Necessary for the honor of
Goll. A prince is disparaged if his authority in his law, and if his
graciousness in his promises, be not accepted and believed. What
physician would un ertake a cure, if his precepts may not be cred-
ited? It is the first thing in the order obnature, that the revelation
of God should be believed, that the reality of his intentions in in-
viting man to the acceptance of those methods he hath prescribed
for their attaining their chief happiness, should be acknowledged.
It is a debasing notion of God, that he should give a happiness,
purchased by Divine blood, to a person that hath no value for it, nor
any abhorrency of those sins that occasioned so ggeat a suffering, nor
any will to avoid them: should he not vilify imself to bestow a
heaven upon that man that will not believe the offers of it, nor walk
in those ways that lead to it? that walks so, as if he would declare
there was no truth in his word, nor holiness in his nature? Would
not God by such an act verif a truth in the language of their prac-
tice, viz. that he were both iiilse and impure, careless of his word,
and negligent of his holiness? As God was so desirous to ensure
the consolation of believers, that if there had been a greater Being
than himself to attest, and tor him to be res onsible to, for the con-
firmation of his romise, he would willinglylliave submitted to him,
and have made him the umpire, “ He swore by himself, because he
could not swear b a greater” (Heb. vi. l9); by the same reason,
had it stood with the majesty and wisdom of God to stoop to lower
conditions in this covenant, for the reducing of man to his duty and
happiness, he would have done it; but his goodness could not take
lower steps, with the preservation of the rights of his majesty, and
the honor of his wisdom. Would you have had him wholly sub-
mitted to the obstinate will of a rebellious creature, and be ruled
only by his terms? Would you have had him received men to nap-
piness, after they had heightened their crimes bg' a contempt of his
grace, as well as of his creating goodness, an have ma e them
lessed under the guilt of their crimes without an acknowledgment?
Should he glorify one that will not believe what he hath revealed,
nor repent of what himself hath committed; and so save a man alter

