on 'ran ooonmiss or con. 288
s repeated unthankfulness to the most immense grace that ever was,
or can be, discovered and offered, without a detestation of his ingrat-
itude, and a voluntary acceptance of his offers? It is necessary, for
the honor of God, that man should accept of his terms, and not give
laws to him to whom he is obnoxious as a guilty erson, as well as
subject as a creature. Again, it was ver equitable and necessary
for the honor of God, that since man fell   an unbelief of his ‘pre-
cept and threatening, he should not rise again without a belief o his
promise, and casting himself upon his truth in that: since he had
vilifiedithe honor of his truth rn the threatening; since man in his
fall would lean to his own understandin against God, it is fit that,
in his recovery, the highest powers of Eis soul, his understanding
and will, should be subjected to him in an entire resignation. Now,
whereas knowledge seems to have a power over its object, faith is a
full submission to that which is the object of it. Since man intended
a glorying in himself; the evangelical covenant directs its whole bat
tery against it, that men ma “glory in nothing but Divine good-
ness” fl Cor. i. 29-31). Had man performed exact obedience by his
own strength, he had had something in himself as the matter of his
glory. And though, after the tall, grace had made itself illustrious in
setting him up upon a new stock, yet had the same condition of exact
obedience been settled in the same manner, man would have had
something to glory in, which is struck off wholly by iaith ; whereby
man in ever act must o out of himself for a supply, to that Med1~
ator which lgivine gooclness and grace hath a pointed. 2. It is ne»
cessary for the happinew of man. That can be no contentinv con-
dition wherein the will of man doth not concur. He that is forced
to the most delicious diet, or to wear the bravest apparel, or to be
stored with abundance of treasure, cannot be happy rn those things
without an esteem of them, and delight in them: if they be nau-
seous to him, the indisposition of his mind is a dead ily in those
boxes of precious ointment. Now, faith being a sincere willingness
to accept of Christ, and to come to God by him, and repentance be-
ing a etestation of that which made man’s separation rom God, it
is impossible he could be voluntarily happy without it: man cannot
attain and enjoy a. true happiness without an operation of his under-
standing about the object proposed, and the means appointed to en-
joy it. There must be a nowledge of what is offered, and of the
way of it, and such a knowledge as may determine the will to affect
that end, and embrace those means; which the will can never do,
till the understanding be fully persuaded of the truth of the oiferer,
and the goodness of the proposal itself; and the conveniency of the
means for the attaining of it. It is necessary, in the natlue of the
thing, that what is revealed should be believed to be a Divine reve-
lation. God must be jud ed true in the promising justification and
sanetiiication, the means 0? happiness; and if any man desires to be
partaker of those promises, he must desireto be sanctified; and how
can he desire that which is the matter of those promises, if he wal-
low in his own lusts, and desire to do so, a thing repugnant to the
pgmise itself? Would you have God force man to be happy against
` will? ls it not very reasonable he should demand the consent

