284 cnnmoex ON rim 'A'I'I'RIBU'1'ES.
of his reasonable creature to that blessedness he oifers him? The
new covenant is a “marriage covenant” (Hes. ii. 16, 19, 203, which
implies a consent on our parts, as well as a consent on Go ’s art;
that is no marriage that hath not the consent of both parties. glow
iaith is our actual’ consent, and repentance and sincere obedience are
the testimonies of the truth and reality of this consent.
6th, Divine goodness is eminent in his methods of treating with
men to embrace this covenant. They are methods of gentleness and
sweetness: it is a wooing goodness, and a bewailing goodness; his
expressions are with strong motions of affection: he carrieth'not on
the gospel by force of arms: the doth not solely menace men into it,
as worldly conquerors have done; he doth not, as Mahornet, plunder
men’s estates, and wound their bodies, to imprint a religion on their
souls: he doth not erect gibbets, and kindle faggots, to scare men
to an entering into covenant with him. What multitudes might he
have raised by his (power, as well as othersl What legions of angels
might he have ren ezvoused from heaven, to have beaten men into
a profession of the gospel! Nor doth he only interpose his sove-
reign authority in the prgcépt of faith, but uset rational expostula
tions, to move men volun ` y to comply with his pro osals (Isa. i. 18),
f‘ Come now, and let us reason to ether,” saith the ]&rd. He seems
to call heaven and earth to be gudge, whether he had been wantin
in any reasonable ways of goo ness, to overcome the perversity 0?
the creature; (Isa. i. 2% “ ear, O heavens, and 've ear, O earth, I
have nourished and rought up children.” ll-lhat various en-
couragernents doth he use agreeable to the nature of men, endeavor~
ing to persuade them with all tenderness, not to de§>ise their own
mercies, and be enemies to their own happiness! e would allure
us by his beauty, and win us by his mercy. He uses the arms of
his own excellency and our necessity to prevail upon us, and this
after the highest provocations. When Adam had trampled upon
his creating goodness, it was not crushed; and when man had cast
it from him, it took the higher rebound: when the rebel’s provoca-
tion was fresh in his rnind, lie sought him out with a promise in his
hand, though Adam fled from him out of enmity as well as fear
(Gen. iii). And when the Jews had outragled his Son, whom he
loved from eternity, and made the Lord of eaven and earth bow
down his head like a slave on the cross, yet in that place, where the
most horrible wickednesshad been committed, must the gospel be
preached: the law must go forth out of that Sion, and the apostl 
must not stir from thence till they had received the promise of the
S irit, and published the word of grace in that ungrateful city,
whose inhabitants yet swelled with indignation against the Lord of
Life, and the doctrine he had preached among them (Luke xxiv.
47 ; Acts i. 4, 5). He would overlook their indignities out of ten-
derness to their souls, and expose the apostles to the peril of their
lives, rather than expose his enemies to the fu_r§pf the devil.
1. How afectionately doth he invite men! hat multitudes of
alluring romises and pressing exhortations are there everywhere
rinkled) in the Scripture, an in such a assionate manner, as if
:ipod were solely concerned in our good, witliout a glance on his cvm

