ON cms eoonzmss or son. _ 285
glory l How tenderly doth he woo flinty hearts, and express more
pity to them than they do to themselves! With what aifection do
is bowels rise up to his lips in his speech in the prophet, Isa. li. 4,
“ Hearken to me, O my peolple, and give ear unto me, O my nation!"
“ My people,” “ my nation ’-melting expressions of a tender God
soliciting a rebellious people to make their retreat to him. He never
em tied his hand of his bounty, nor divested his lips of those chari-
tablie expressions. He sent Noah to move the wicked of the old
world to an embracing of his goodness, and frequent prophets to the
provoking Jews; and as the world continued, and grew up to a
taller stature in sin, he stoo s more in the manner of his expres-
sions. Never was the world) at a higher pitch of idolatry than at
the iirst publishing the gospel; et, when we should have expected
him to be a punishing, he is a heseeching God. The apostle fears
not to use the ex iression for the glory of ivine goodness; “We
are ambassadors lor Christ, as though God did beseech you by us"
(2 Cor. v. 20). The beseeching voice of God is in the voice of the
ministry, as the voice of the prince is in that of the herald: it is as
if Divine goodness did kneel down to a sinner with ringed hands
and blubbered cheeks, entreating him not to force him to re-assume
a tribunal of justice in the nature of a Judge, since he would treat
with man upon a throne of grace in the nature of a Father; yea, he
seems to put himself into the posture of the criminal, that the oilend-
ing creature might not feel the punishment due to a rebel. It is not
the condescension, but the interest, of a traitor to creep upon his
knees in sackcloth to his sovereign, to beg his life; but it is a mirac-
ulous goodness in the sovereign to creep in the lowest sture to the
rebel, to importune him, not only for an amity to him, gilt a love for
his own life and happiness: this He doth, not only in his general
proclamations, but in-his particular wooings, those inward courting
of his Spirits, soliciting them with more diligence gif they would o
serve it) to their happiiness, than the devil tempts them to the wa 's
of their misery: as e was first in Christ, reconciling the worlyd,
when the world looked not after him, so he is iirst in his Spirit,
wooing the world to acce t of that reconciliation, when the world
will not listen to him. Ediw often doth he flash up the light of na-,
ture and the light of the word in men’s hearts, to move them not to
lie down in sparks of their own kindling, but to aspire to a better
happiness, and prepare them to be subject to a higher mercy, if they
would imrprove his present entreaties to such an endl And what
are his t reatenings designed for, but to move the wheel of our
fears, that the wheel of our desire and love might be set on motion
for the embracing his promise? They are not so much the thun-
ders of his justice, as the loud rhetoric of his good will, to prevent
men’s misery under the vials of wrath: it is his kindness to scare
men by threatenings, that justice might not strike them with the
sword: it is not the destruction, but the preserving reformation, that
he aims at: he hath no leasure in the death of the wicked; this he
confirms by his oath. Eis threatenings are gracious expostulatiuns
with them: “Why will ye die, O house of Israel” (Ezek. xxxiii.
11)? They are like the noise a favorable officer makes in the street,

