286 cnxrmocx ON 'mm Arrsmurss.
to war! the criminal he comes to seize upon. to make his escape: hc
never used his justice to crush men, till e had used his kindness tc
allure them. All the dreadful descriptions of a future wrath., aswell
as the lively descriptions of the happiness of another world, are de-
signed tc persuade men; the honey of his goodness is in the bowels
of those roaring lions: such pains doth Goodness take with men, to
make them candidates for heaven.
2. How readily doth he receive men when they do return! We
have David’s experience for it (Ps.   5); “I said., I will confess
my transgressions unto the Lord; and thou forgavest the iniquity
of my sin. Selah.” A sincere look from the creature draws out his
arms, and olpens his bosom; he is ready with his physic to heal us,
upon a reso ution to acquaint him with our disease, and by his med-
icines prevents the putting our resolution into a petition. The
Psalmist adds a “Selah” to it, as a special note of thankfulness for
Divine goodness. He doth not only stand ready to receive our
titions while we are speaking, but answers us before we call (Fai
lxv. 24) ;` listening to the motions of our heart, as well asto the sup-
plications of our lips. He is the true Father, that hath a quicker
pace in meeting, than the prodigal hath in returnin ; who would
not have his embraces an caresses interrupted bydmis confession
%¢uke xv. 20-22); the confession follows, doth not precede, the
ather’s compassion. How doth he rejoice in having an op rtu~
nity to express his grace, when he hath prevailed with a. rehgl to
throw down his arms, and lie at his feet; and this because “ he de-
lights in mercy” (Micah. vii. 18) l He delights in the expressions of
it from himself, and the acceptance of it by his creature. _
3. How meltingly doth he bewail man’s wilful refusal of his good-
nessl It is a mighty goodness to oifer grace to a rebel; a mighty
goodness to give it him after he hath a while stood oif from the
terms; an astonishing goodness to re et and lament his wilful per-
dition. He seems to utter those Wong in a si h, “ O that my pee le
had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my way” (¥s.
lxxxi. 13)l It is true, God hath not human passions, but his affec-
tions cannot be expressed otherwise in a way intelligible to us; the
excellency of his nature is above the passions of men; but such exq
pressions of himself manifest to us the sincerity of his goodness: and
that, were he capable of our passions, he would express himself in
such a manner as we do: and we find incarnate Goodness bewailing
with tears and sighs the ruin of Jerusalem (Luke xix. 42). By the
same reason that when a sinner returns there is -joy in heaven, upon
his obstinacy there is sorrow in earth. The one is, as if a prince
should clothe all his court in triumphant scarlet, upon a rebel’s re-
pentance; and the other, as if a prince put himself and his court in
momning for a rebel’s obstinate refusal of a pardon, when he lies at
his mercy. Are not now these affectionate invitations, and deep be~
wailings of their perversity, high testimonies of Divine goodness?
Do not the unwearied repetitions of gracious encouragements deserve
a h' her name than that of mere goodness? What can be a stronger
eviiiince of the sincerity of it, than the sound of his saving voice in
our enjoymcnts, the motion of his Spirit in our hearts, and his grief

