ON THE Goonrrsss or con. 287
for the neglect of all? These are not testimonies of any want of
‘goodness in his nature to answer us, or unwillin ess to express it to
is creature. Hath he any mind to deceive us, giixt thus intreats us?
The majesty of his nature is too great for such shifts; or, if it were
not, the despicableness of our condition would render him above the
using any. Who would charge that ph sician with want of kind-
ness, that freely offers his sovereign medicine, im ortunes men, by
the love they have to their health, to take it, and) is dissolved into
tears and sorrow when he finds it rejected by their peevish and con-
oeited humor?
7th. Divine goodness is eminent in the sacraments he hath aiiixed
to this covenant, especially the Lord’s supper. As he gave himself
in his Son, so he gives his Son in the sacrament; he doth not only
give him as a sacrifice upon the cross for the expiation of our crimes,
but as a feast upon the table for the nourishment of our souls: in
the one he was iven to be offered; in this he gives him to be par-
taken of, with alll the fruits of his death; under the im e of the
sacramental signs, every believer doth eat the flesh, andagrink the
blood of the eat Mediator of the covenant. The words of Christ,
“ This is my bbdy, and this is my blood,” are true to the end of the
world (Matt. xxvi. 26, 28). This is the most delicious viand of
heaven, the most exquisite dainty food God can feed us with: the
delight of the Deity, the admiration of angels; a feast with God is
great, but a feast on God is greater. Under those signs that body is
resented; that which was conceived by the S(pirit, inhabited by the
iiodhead, bruised by the Father to be our foo , as well as our pro-
pitiation, is presented to us on the table. That blood which satisfied
justice, was ed away our guilt on the cross, and pleads for our per-
sons at the throne of grace; that blood which silenced the curse,
acilied heaven, and purged earth, is given to us for our refreshment.
This is the bread sent from heaven, the true manna; the cup is “the
cup of blessing,” and, therefore, a cup of goodness (1 Cor. X. 15)
It is true, brea doth not cease to be bread, nor the wine tease to be
wine; neither of them lose their substance, but both acquire a sanc-
tification, by the relation they have to that which they re resent,
and give a nourishment to that faith that receives them. iii those
God offers us a remedy for the sting of sin, and troubles of con-
science; he gives us not the blood of a mere man, or the blood of
an incarnate angel, but of God blessed forever; a blood that can se-
cure us against the wrath of heaven, and the tumults of our con-
scien cs; a blood that can wash away our sins, and beautify our
souls; a blood that hath more strength than our filth, and more prev-
alency than our accuser; a blood that secures us against the terrors
of death, and purifies us for the blessedness of heaven. The goodness
of God complies with our senses, and condescends to our weakness;
he instructs us by the eye, as well as by the ear; _he lets us see, and'
taste, and feel him, as well as hear him; he veils his glory under
earthly elements, and informs our understanding in the iuystcrics of
salvation by signs familiar to our senses; and because we cannot
with our bodily eyes behold him in his glory, he preser ts him to the
eyes of our mmds in elements, to affect our understandings in the

