288 cianumocx ON 'mn ATTRIBUTES.
representati ns of his death. The body of Christ crucified is more
visible to our spiritual sense, than the invisible Deity could be visible
in his flesh upon earth; and the power of his body and blood is as
well experimented in our souls, as the power of his Divinity was
seen by the Jews in his miraculous actions in his bodv in the world.
It is the goodness of God, to mind us frequently of the eat things
Christ hath purchased; that as himself would not let gem be out
of his mind, to communicate them to us, so he would give us means
to preserve them in om' minds, to adore him for them, and request
them of him; whereby he doth evidence his own solicitousness, that
we should not be de rived by our own forgetfiilness of that grace
Christ hath purchased for us; it was to remember the Redeemer,
“and show his death till he came” (1 Cor. xi. 25, 26).
1. His goodness is seen in the end of it, which is a sealing the cov-
enant of grace. The common nature and end of sacraments is to
seal the covenant they belong to, and the truths of the promises of
itf The legal sacraments of circumcision and the iassover sealed the
legal romises and the covenant in the Judicial administration of it;
and tliie evangelical sacraments seal the evangelical promises, as a
ring confirms a contract of marriage, and a seal the articles of a'
compact; by the same reason, circumcision is called a “seal of the
righteousness of faith" (Rom. iv. ll); other sacraments may have
the same title; God doth attest, that ie will remain firm in his rom-
ise, and the receiver attests he will remain firm in his faith. En all
reciprocal covenants, there are mutual engagements, and that which
serves for a seal on the part of the one, serves for a seal also on the
part of the other; God obligeth himself to the performance of the
romise, and man enrfageth himself to the performance of his duty.
The thing confirmed   this sacrament is the pe etuity of this cov-
enant in the blood 0. Christ, whence it is ca leldp “ the New Testa-
ment,” or covenant “in the blood of Christ” (Luke xxii. 20). In
every repetition of it, God, by presenting, confirms his resolution to
us, of sticking to this covenant for the merit of Christ’s blood; and
the receiver, y eating the body and_ drinking, the blood, engageth
himself to keep close to the condition of fait , expecting a_full sal-
vation and a blessed immortality upon the merit of the same blood
alone. This sacrament could not be called the “ New Testament, or
Covenant,” if it had not some relation to the covenant; and what it
can be but this, I do not understand. The covenant itself was con-
firmed “by the death of Christ" (Heb. ix. 15), and thereby made un-
changeable both in the benefits to us, and the condition required of
us; but he seals it to our sense in a sacrament, to give us strong con-
solation; or, rather, the articles of the covenant of redemption be~
tween the Father and the Son, agreed on from eternity, were accom-
plished on Christ’s part by his death, on the Father’s part bv his
resurrection; Christ performed what he promised in the one, and God
acknowledgeth the validity of it, and performs what he had promised
in the other. The covenant of grace, founded upon this covenant of
redemption, is sealed in the sacrament; God owns his standing to the
terms of it, as sealed by the blood of the Mediator, by presenting
f Amyral. Irenicum. pp. 16, 17.

