ON 'rim eoonmass or con. 289
him to us under those signs, and gives us a right upon faith to the
enjoyment of the fruits ot it. As the right of a house is made over
by the delivery of the key, and the right of land translated by the
delivery of a turf; whereby he gives us assuranceof his reality, and
a strong support to our confidence in him; not that there is any
virtue and power of sealing in the elements themselves, no more
than there is in a turf to give an enfeoffment in a parcel of land; but
as the power of one is derived from the order of the law, so the con-
firming power of the sacrament is derived from the institution of
God; as the oil wherewith kings were annointed, did not of itself
confer upon them that royal dignity, but it was a sign of their inves-
titure into oiiice, ordered by Divine institution. We can with no
reason imagine, that God intended them as naked signs or pictures, to
please our eyes with the image of them, to represent their own fig-
ures to our eyes, but to confirm somethin to our understanding by
the efficacy of the Spirit accompanying tiemnz they convey to the
believing receiver w at the represent, as the great seal of a prince,
fixed to the parchment, dotii the pardon of a rebel as well as its own
figure. Christ’s death, and the grace of the covenant is not only sig-
nified, but the fruits and merit of that death communicated also.
Thus doth Divine goodness evidence itself, not only in making a
acious covenant with us, but fixing seals to it; not to strengthen
Eiis own obligation, which stood stronger than the foundations of
heaven and earth, upon the credit of his word, but to strengthen our
Weakness, and support our security, by something which might ap-
pear more formal and solemn than a bare word. By this, the Divine
goodness provides against our spiritual faintings, and shows us by rea]
signs as well as verbal declarations, that the covenant sealed by the
blood of Christ, is unalterable ; and thereby would fortify and mount
our hopes to degrees in some measure suitable to the kindness of the
covenant, and the dignity of the Redeemer’s blood. And it is yet a
further degree of this goodne , that he hath a pointed us so otien
to celebrate it, whereby he shows how careful lie is to keep u our
tottering faith, and preserve us constant in our obedience; oblliging
himself to the performance of his promise, andobliging us to the pay-
ment of our duty.
2. His goodness is seen in, the sacrament in giving us in it an
union and communion with Christ. There is not only a commemo-
ration of Christ dying, but a communication of Christ living. The
apostle strongly asserts it by way of interrogation (1 Cor. x. 16),
“ The cu of lessing which we bless, is it not the communion of
the bloodp of Christ? the bread which we break, is it not the com-
munion of the bod of Christ ?” In the cup there is a ,communica-
tion of the blood ofy Christ, a conveyance of a right to the merits of
his death, and the blessedness of his life: we are not less by this
made one body with Christ than we are by baptism (1 Cor. xii. 13):
and “ put on Christ" living in this, as well as in baptism (Gal. iii.
27) ; t at as his taking mu' infirm flesh was a real incarnation, so the
`ving us his flesh to eat is a m stical incarnation in believers, where-
Ey they become one body witli him as crucified, and one body with
I Daille, Melnng. Partl, p. 253.
vor.. 11.-19

