290 crmmocx on 'rss xrrnmvrss.
him as risen; for if Christ himself be received by faith in the word
(Col. ii. 6), he is no less received by faith in the sacrament. When
the Holy Ghost is said to be received, the graces or   ofthe Holy
Ghost are received; so when Christ is received, t e fruits of his
death are really artaken of The Israelites that ate of the sacrifices,
did “partake oflizhe altar” (1 Cor. X. 18), i. e. had a communion with
the God of Israel, to whom they had been sacrificed ~ and those that
“ ate of the sacrifices” offered to idols, had a “fellowship with devils,”
to whom those sacrihees were offered (ver. 20). Those that partake
of the sacraments in a due manner, have a communion with that
God to whom it was sacrificed, and a communion with that body
which was sacrificed to God; not that the substance of that body
and blood is wrapped up in the elements, or that the bread and wine
are transformed into the bod and blood of Christ, but as thev re- ,
present him, and by virtue oiy the institution are, in estimation him-
self, his own body and blood; by the same reason as he is called
“ Christ our passover,” he may be called “Christ our supper” (1 Cor.
v. 7): for as they are so rec oned to an unworthy receiver, as if
they were the real body and blood of Christ, because by his not dis-
cerning the Lord’s body in it, or making light of it as common bread,
he is judged “ guilty o the body and blood of Christ,” guilty of treat»
ing him in as base a manner as the Jews did when they crowned him
with thorns (1 Cor. xi. 27, 29): by the same reason they must be
reckoned to a worthy receiver, as the very body and blood of Christ:
so that as the unworthy receiver “eats and drinks damnation,” the
worthy receiver “eats and drinks” salvation. It would be an empty
mystery, and unworthy of an institution by Divine goodness, if there
were not some communion with Christ in it: there would be some
kind of deceit in the precept, “ Take, eat, and drink, this is my body
and blood,” if there were not a conveyance of spiritual vital influ-
ences to our souls: for the natural end of eating and drinkin is the
nourishment and increase of the body, and preservation of lifefby
that which we eat and drink. The infinite wise, gracious, and true
God, would never give us empty Egures without accomplishing that
which is signified by them, and suitable to them. How great is this
goodness of God! he would have his Son in us, one with us, straitly
joined to us, as if we were his proper flesh and blood: in the incar-
nation Divine goodness united him to our nature; in the sacrament,
it doth in a sort unite him with his purchased privileges to our per-
sons; we have not a communion with a part or a member of his
body, or a drop of his blood, but with his whole bod and blood, re~
presented in every part of the elements. The angels in the heaven
enjoy not segdgreat a privilege; they have the honor to be under him
as their II ,but not that of having him for their food; the be-
hold him, but they do not taste him. And, certainly, that goodness
that hath condescended so much to om' weakness, would impart it to
us in a. very glorious manner, were we capable of it. But, because
a man cannot behold the light of the sun in its full splendor by rea-
son of' the iniirmities of his eyes, he must behold it by the help of a
glam, and such a communication through a colored and opaque gl
is as real from the sim itself; though not so glorious, but more shroud?

