ON 'nm eoommss or son. 291
and obscure; it is the same li ht that shines through that medium,
as spreads itself gloriously in the open air, though the one be masked,
and the other open-faced. To conclude this, b the,way, we may
take notice of the neglect of this ordinance:  it be a token of
Divine goodness to ap int it, it is no sign of our estimation of
Divine goodness to neglleizt it. He that va ues the kindness of his
friend, will accept of his invitation, if there be not some strong im-
pediments in the way, or so much familiarity with him that his re-
usal upon a light occasion would not be uuldndly taken. But
thouéflh God put on the disposition of a friend to us, yet he looseth
not e authority of a sovereign; and the humble familiarity he in-
vites us to, doth not diminish the condition and duty of a subject.
A soverei n prince would not take it well, if a favorite should refuse
the oiferef honor of his table. The viands of God are not to be
slighted. Can we live better upon our poor pittanee than upon his
damties? Did not Divine goodness eondeseend in it to the weak-
n  of our faith, and shall we conceit our faith stro er than God
thinks it? If he thought fit by those seals to make andeed of gift to
us, shall we be so unmannerly to him, and such enemies to' the se-
curity he offers us over and above his word, as not to aeeelpt it?
Are we unwilling to have our souls inflamed with love, our earts
iilled with comfort, and armed ainst the attempts of our enemies?
It is true, there is a guilt of theagody and blood of Christ contracted
by a slightness in the manner of attending; is it not also contracted
by a refusal and neglect? What is the language of it ? If it speaks
not the death of Christ in vain, it s eaks the institution of this ordi-
nance as a remembrance of his deatili, to be a vanity, and no mark of
Divine goodness. Let us, therefore, ut such a value upon Divine
goodness in this affair, as to be willing to receive the conveyances
of his love, and fresh engagements of our duty; the one is due from
us to the kindness of our friend, and the other belongsto our duty
as his subjects.
vi. By this redemption God restores us to a more excellent condi-
tion than Adam had in innocence. Christ was sent by Divine good-
nem not only to restore the life Adam’s sin had stripped us of, but
to give it more abundantly than Adam’s standing could have con-
veyed it to us (John x. 10), “I am come that the might have life,
and that they might have it more abundantly.” hlore abundantl
for strength, more abundantly for duration, a life abounding with
greater fe icity and glory: the substance of those better promises of
the new covenant than what attended the old. There are fuller
streams of grace by Christ than ilowed to Adam, or could How from
Adam. As Christ never restored any to health and strength while
he was in the world, but he gave them a greater measure of both
than they had before; so there is the same kindness, no question,
manifested in our spiritual condition. Ada.m’s life might have pre-
served us, but Adam’s death could not have rescued either himse f or
his post ~rity; but, in our redemption, we have a Redeemer, who
hath “died to expiate our sins,’ and so crowned with life to save,
and forever preserve our persons (Rom. v. 10), “Because I live, ye
shall live also :” so that by redeeming goodness the life of a believer

