292 cruaztocx ON THE Amnrsuras.
is as perpetual as the life of the Redeemer Christ (John xiv. 11).
Adam, tho h innocent, was under the danger of rishing; a be-
liever, thoulgi culpable, is above the fears of mutabiiigy. Adam had
a holiness in his nature, but capable of being lost; by Christ be-
lievers have a holiness bestowed, not capable of being rifled., but
which will remain till it be at last fully perfected : though they have
a power to change in their nature, yet they are above an actual Hnal
change by the indulgence of Divine grace. Adam stood by himself;
believers stand in a root, impossible to be shaken or corrupted: b
this means the “promise is sure to all the seed" (Rom. iv. 16;
Christ is a stronger person than Adam, who can never break cove-
nant with God, and t e truth of God will never break covenant with
him. We are 'ted to a more excellent Head than Adam: instead
of a root merdiyhurnan, we have a. root Divine as well as human.
In him we had the righteousness of a creature merely human; in
this we have a righteousness divine, the righteousness of God-man;
the stock is no longer in our own hands, but in the hands of One
that cannot embezzle it, or forfeit it: Divine goodness hath deposit-
ed it strongly for our security. The stamp we receive, by the Divine
goodness, om the second Adam, is more noble than that we should
ave received from the first, had he remained in his created state:
Adam was formed of the dust of the earth, and the new man isform-
ed b the incorruptible seed of the word; and at the resurrection,
the body of man shall be endued with better qualities than Adam
had at creation: they shall be like that glorious Body which is in
heaven, in union with the person of the “Son of God” (Phil. iii. 21).
Adam, at the best, had but an earthly bod , but the Lord from
heaven hath a “heavenly body,” the image ofy which shall be borne
by the redeemed ones, as they have home the image of the earthly
(1 Cor. xv. 47-49). Adam had the society of beasts; redeemed
ones expect, by Divine goodness in redemption, a commerce with
angels; as they are reconciled to them by is death, they shall cer-
tainly come to converse with them at the consummation of their hap-
piness; as they are made of one family, so they will have a peculiar
intimacy: Adamhad a paradise, and redeemed ones a heaven pro-
vided for them; a happier (place with a richer furniture. It is much
to give so complete a ara ise to innocent Adam; but more to give
heaven to an ungratefidl Adam, and his rebellious posterity: it had
been abundant goodness to have restored us to the same condition
in that paradise from whence we were ejected; but a superabundant
goodness to bestow upon us a better habitation in heaven, which we
could never have expected. How great is that goodness, when by
sin we were fallen to be worse than nothing, that He should raise us
to be more than what we were; that restored us, not to the first step
of om' creation, but to many degrees of elevation beyond it I not only
restores us, but prefers us; not only striking olf our chains, to set
us free, but clothing us with a robe of righteousness, to render us
honorable; not only quenching our hell, but preparing a heaven;
not re-garnishing an earthly; but providing a richer palace: his good-
ness was so great, that, after it had rescued us, it would not content
itself with the old furniture, but makes all new for us ip another

