ON 'rim soonrmss or son. 293
world; a new wine to drink; a new heaven tn dwell in; a more
magnificent structure for our habitation: thus hath Goodness pre-
pared for us a straiter union, a stronger life, a purer righteousness,
an unshaken standing, and a fuller glory; all more excellent than
was within the compass of innocent Adam’s possession.
vii. This goodnessin redemption extends itself to the lower crea-
tion. It takes in, not only man, but the whole creation, except the
fallen angels, and gives a participation of it to insensible creatures;
upon the account of this redem tion the sun, and all kind of crea-
tures, were preserved, which otlierwise had sunk into destruction
upon the sin of man, and ceased from their being, as man had utterly
ceased from his happiness (Colos. i. 17): “By him all things con-
sist.” The fall of man brought, not only a misery upon himse1£
but a vanit upon the creature; the earth groaned under a curse for
his sake. They were all created for the glory of God, and the sup
port of man in the performance of his duty, who was obliged to use
them for the honor of Him that created them both. Had man been
true to his obligations, and used the creatures for that end to which
they were dedicated by the Creator; as God would have then re-
joiced in his works, so his works would have rejoiced in the honor
of answering so excellent an end: but when man lost his integrity,
the creatures lost their perfection; the honor of them was stained
when they were debased to serve the lusts of a traitor, instead of
supporting the duty of a subject, and employed in the defence of
the vices of men against the precepts and authority of their common
Sovereign. This was a vilifying the creature, as it would be a vili-
fying the sword of a prince, which is, for the maintenance of justice,
to be used for the murder of an innocent; and a dishonoring a royal
mansion, to make it a storehouse for a dunghill. Had those things
the beneiit of sense, they would groan under this disgrace, and rise
up in indignation against them that offered them this afront, and
tumed them &om their proper end. When  in entered, the heavens
that were made to shine upon man, and the earth that was made to
bear and nourish an innocent creature, were now subjected to serve
arebellious creature; and as man turned against God, so he made
those instruments against God, to serve his enmity, lux1u'y, sensual-
ity. Hence the creatures are said to groan (Rom. viii. 22),; “ The
‘whole creation groans and travails in pain together until nowf They
would really groan, had they understanding to be sensible of the
outrage done them. “ The whole creation.”-It is the pang of uni-
versal nature, the agony of the whole creation, to be alienated from
the original use for which they were intended, and be disjointed from
their end to serve the disloyalt of a rebel. The drunkard’s cup,
and the glutton’s table, the adyulterer’s bed, and the proud mans
urple, would groan against the abuser of them. But when all the
Ifiuits of redemption shall be completed, the goodness of God shall
pour itself upon the creatures, deliver them from the “ bondage of
corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God” (Rom.
viii. 21); the shall be reduced to their true end, and returned in
their originaly harmony. As the creation doth passionately groan
under its vanity, so it doth “earnestly expect and wait for its de-

