294 cnannocx ON 'mn irrmnmms.
liverance at the time of the manifestation of the sons of God" _(vel.
19). The manifestation of the sons of God is the attainment of the
liberty of the creature. They shall be heed from the vanix under
which they are enslaved; as it entered by sin, it shall vanis upon
the total removal of sin. What use they were designed for in para-
dise theywill have a&erwards, excelpt that of the nourishment of
men, who shall be as “ angels, neit er eating nor drinking :” the
gleory of God shall be seen and _contemplated in them. It can hardly
t ought that God made the world to be little a moment aRer he
had reared it, sullied by the sin of man, and t1u'ned from its original
end, without thoughts of a restoration of it to its true end, as well as
man to his lost happiness. The world was made for man : man hath
not yet enjoyed the creature in the tirst intention of them; sin made
an interruption in that fruition. As redemption restores man to his
true end, so it restores the creatures to their true use. The restora-
tion of the world to its beauty and order was the design of the
Divine goodness in the coming of Christ, it is intimated in Isa. xi.
6-9 ; as he “came not to destroy the law, but to fuliil it,” so he
came not to destro the creatures, but to repair them: to restore to
God the honor anti’ pleasure of the creation, and restore to the crea-
tures their felicity in restoring their order: the fall corrupted it, and
the full redemption of men restores it. The last time is called, not
a time of destruction, but a “time of restitution," and that “ of all
things” (Acts iii. 21%, of universal natiue, the main part of the crea-
tion at least. All t ose things which were the effects of sin will be
abolished; the removal of the cause beats down the effect. The dis-
order and umuliness of the creature, arising hom the venom of
man’s transgression, all the fierceness of one creature against another
shall vanish. The world shall be nothing but an universal smile;
nature shall .put on triumphant vestments: there shall be no affright-
ing thunders, choking mists, venomous vapors, or poisonous plants.
It would not else be a restitution .of all thin They are now sub-
ject to be wasted by judgments for the sin ogheir possessor, but the
perfection of man’s redemptions shall free them from every misery;
hey have an advancement at the present, for they are under a more
glorious Head, as bein the possession of Christ, the heavenly Adam,
much superior to the Erst: as it is the glory of a person to be a ser-
vant to a grince, rather than a peasant. And afterwards, they shall
be elevate to a better state, sharing in man’s happiness, as well as
they did in his misery: asservants are interested in the good fortune
of their master, and bettered by his advance in his prince’s favor.
As man in his first creation was mutable and liable to sin, so the
creatures were liable to vanity; but as man b grace shall be freed
from the mutability, so shall the creatures be geed from the fears of
an invasion, by the vanity that sullied them before. The condition
of the servants shall be suited to that of their Lord, for whom they
were designed: hence, all creatures are called upon to rejoice upon
the perfection of salvation, and the a pearance of Christ’s royal au-
thority in the world. . If they were to he destroyed, there would be no
und to invite them to triumph (Ps. xcvi. 11, 12 ; cxviii. 7, 8). Thus
gh Divine goodnem spread its kind arms over the whole creation.

