ON 'run GOODNESS or son. 295
ThirdQ. The _third thing is the oodness of God in his Government.
That goodness that despised not their creation, doth not despise their
conduct. The same goodness that was the head that framed them,
.s the helm that guides them; his goodness hovers over the whole
frame, either to prevent any wild disorders unsuitable to his creating
end, or to conduct them to those ends which might illustrate his
wisdom and goodness to his creatures. His goodness doth no less
incline him to provide for them, than to frame them. It is the
natural inclination of man to love what is purely the birth of his
own strength or skill. He is fond of preserving his own inventions,
as well as laborious in inventing them. It is the glory of a man to
preserve them, as well as to roduce them. God lovcs everythin
which he hath made, which lidve could not be without a continued
diifusiveness to them. suitable to the end for which he made them.
It would be a vain goodness, if it did not interest itself in managing
the world, as well as erecting it: without his government everythin
in the world would jostle against one another: the beauty of it would
be more defaced, it would be an unruly mass, a confused chaos rather
than a K6fryo;, a. comel world. If Divine goodness respected it when
it was nothing, it would much more respect it when it was something,
by the sole virtue of his power and good-will to it, without any mo-
tive from anything else than himself, because there was nothing else
but himself But since he sees his own stamp in things without him-
self in the creature, which is a kind of motive or moving object to
Divine goodness to preserve it, when there was nothingwithout him-
self that could be any motive to Him to create it: as when God
hath created a creature, and it falls into misery, that misery of the
creature, though it doth not necessitate his mercy, yet meeting with
such an affection as mercy in his nature, is a moving object to excite
it; as the repentance of Nineveh drew forth the exercise of his pity
and preserving goodness. Certainly, since God is good, he is bounti-
ihl; and if bountiful, he is provident. He would seem to envy and
malign his creatures, if he did not provide for them, while he intends
to use them : but infinite goodness cannot be eifected with envy;
for all envy implies a want of that good in ourselves, which we re-
d with so evil an eye in another. But God, being infinitely
gltcssed, hath not the want of any good that can be a rise to such an
uncomely disposition. The Jews thought that Divine goodness ex-
tended only to them in an immediate and particular care,`and left
all other nations and things to the guidance of angels. But the
Psalmist (Ps. cvii. a psalm calculated for the celebration of this per-
fection, in the continued course of his providence throughout all
es of the world) ascribes to Divine goodness immediately all the
§vantages men meet with._ He helps them in their actions, ,presides
over their motions, inspects their several conditions, labors ay and
night in a perpetual care of them. The whole life of the world is
linked together by Divine oodness. Everythingis ordered by him
in the place where he hath set it, without which the world would
be stripped of that excellency it hath by creation.
lst.. This goodness is evident in the care he hath of all creatures.
There is a peculiar goodness to his people; but this takes not away

