296 cr-mnnoorc ON THE Armrsnrns.
his general oodness to the world: though a master of a family hath
a. choicer aflgection to those that have an affinity to him in nature,
and stand in a nearer relation, as his wife, children, servants; yet
he hath a regard to his cattle, and other creatures he nourisheth
in his house. All things are not only before his eyes, but in his
bosom; he is the nurse of all creatures, supplying their wants, and
sustaining them from that nothing they tend to. The “earth is
full of his riches” (Ps. civ 22; not a creek or cranny but parlakes
of it. Abundant goodness aily hovers over it, as well as hatched
it. The whole world swims in the rich bounty of the Creator, as
the fish do in the largeness of the sea, and birds in the spaciousnex
of the air.” The goodness of God is the river that waters the whole
'ea.rth. As a lifeless picture casts its eye upon every one in the
room, so doth a living God upon everything in the world. And as
the sun illuminates all things which are capable of partaking of its
light, and diifuseth its beams to all things which are capable of re-
ceiving them, so doth God spread his wings over the whole clea-
tion, and neglects nothing, wherein he sees a mark of his first
creating goodiness. `
1. His goodness is seen, in preserving all things. “ O Lord, thou
preservest man and beast” (Ps. xxxvi. 6). Not ongy man, but beasts,
and beasts as well as men; man, as the most exce lent creature, and
beasts as being serviceable to man, and instruments of his worldly
happiness. He continues the species of all things, concurs with
them in their distinct oiiices, and quickens the womb of nature.
He visits man ever day, and makes him feel the effects of his pro-
vidence, in giving lyiim “fruitful seasons, and filling his heart with
food and gladness” (Acts xiv. 17), as witnesses of his liberality and
ldndness to man. “The earth is visited and watered by the river
of God. He settles the furrows of the earth, and makes it soft with
showers,” that the corn may be nourished in its womb, and s ring
up to maturity. “ He crowns the year with his goodness, ang his
paths drop fatness. The little hills rejoice on every side; the pas-
tures are clothed with flocks, and the valleys are covered over with
corn,” as the Psalmist elegantly says (Ps. lxv. 9, 10; cvii. 35, 36).
He waters the ground by is s owers, and preserves the little seed
from the rapine of animals. “ He draws not out the evil arrows of
famine,” as the expression is (Ezek. v. 16). Every day shines with
new beams of his Divine goodness. The vastness of this city, and
the multitudes of living souls in it, is an astonishing ar ent.
What streams of nourishing necessaries are daily conveyedu-E-o it!
Every mouth hath bread to sustain it; and among all the number
of poor in the bowels and skirts of it, how rare is it to hear of any
starved to death for want of it! Every day he “spreads a table’
for ns, and that with vayieties, and “ nlls our cups” (Ps. xxiii. 5). He
shortens not his hand, nor withdraws his bounty: the increase of
one year by his blessing, restores what was spent by the former.
He is the “strength of our life” (Ps. xxvii. 1), continuing the vigor
of our limbs, and the health of our bodies; secures us from “ terrors
by night, and the arrows of diseases that fly by day” (Ps. xci. 5)'
' U Gulielmus Parasieu. p. 184.

