ON 'ms soommss or son. 297
“sets a hedge about our estates” (Job i. 10), and defends them against
the attempts of violence; preserves our houses from flames that
might consume them, and our persons from the dangers that lie in
walt for them; watcheth over us “in our goings out, and our com-
ings in” (Ps. cxxi. 8), and way-lays a thousand dangers we know
not of: and employs the most glorious creatures in heaven in the
service of mean “men upon earth” (Ps. xci. 11): not by a faint
order, but a pressing charge over them, to “ keep them in all his
ways.” Those that are his immediate servants before his throne,
he sends to minister to them that were once his rebels. B_v an
angel he conducted the affairs of Abraham (Gen. xxiv. 7): and b
an angel secured the life of Ishmael (Gen. xxi. 17): glorious angel;
for mean man, holy angels for impure man, powerful angels _for
weak man. How in the midst ‘of great dangers, doth his sudden
light dissipate our great darkness, and create a deliverance out of
nothing! How often is he found a present help in time of troublel
When all other assistance seems to stand at a distance, he flies to us
beyond our expectations, and raises us up on the sudden from the
pit of our dejectedness, as well as that of our danger, exceeding om
wishes, and shooting beyond our desires as well as our deserts. How
often, in the time of confusion, doth he preserve an indefensible
place from the attacks of enemies, like a bark in the midst of a tem-
pestuous sea! the rage falls upon other places round about them,
and, by a secret etlicacy of Divine goodness, is not able to touch
them. He hath peculiar preservations for his Israel in Egy t, and
his Lots in Sodom, his Daniels in the lions’ dens, and his cliildren
in a fiery furnace. He hath a tenderness for all, but a. peculiar
atfectiou to those that are in covenant with him.
2. '1`he goodness of God is seen in taking care of the animals and
and inanimate things. Divine goodness embraceth in its arms the
lowest worm as well as the loftiest cherubim : he provides food for
the “crying ravens” (Ps. cxlvii. 9), and a prey for the appetite of
the “hungry lion” (Ps. civ. 21): “He opens his hand, and 'fills
with good those innumerable cree ing things, both small and great
beasts; they are all waiters upon liim, and all are satisfied by their
bountiful Master” (Ps. civ. 25-28). They are better provi ed for
by the hand of heaven, than the best favorite is by an earthlly
prince : for “ they are filled with good.” He hath made channe s
in the wildest deserts, for the watering of beasts, and trees for the
nests and “habitation of birds" (Ps. civ. 10, 12, 17). As a Law-
giver to the Jews, he took care that the poor beast should not be
abused b the cruelty of man: he provided for the ease of the
laboring heast in that command of the Sabbath, wherein he pro-
vided fbr his own service: the cattle was to do “ no work” on it
(Exod. xx. 10). He ordered that the mouth of the ox should not be
muzzled while it trod out the corn (Deut. xxv. 4, it beinv the man-
ner of those countries to separate the corn from the stalk by that
means, as we do in this by thrashing), regarding it as a part of
cruelty to deprive the poor beast of tastingoand satisfying itself
with that which he was so oflicious by his la r to prepare for the
use of man. And when any met with a nest of young birds, though
»

