298 crnuuvocx ON rss Arrsmurrs.
they might take the young to their use, they were forbidden to seize
upon the dam, that s e might not lose the objects of her affection
and her own liberty in one da (Deut. xxii. 6).
And see how God enforcetli this precept with a threatening of a
shortness of life, if they transgressed 1t(Deut.   7); “ Thou shalt
let the dam go, that it may be well with thee, and t t thou mayest
prolong thy da s.7’ He would revenge the cruelty to dumb crea-
tlues with the sliortness of the oppressor’s life: nor would he have
cruelt used to creatures that were separated for his worshipl: he
therefgre rovides that a cow, or an ewe, and their young ones, s ould
“not be lgilled for sacriice in one day” (Lev. xxii. 28). All which
precepts, say the Jews, are to teach men mercifulness to their beasts;
so much doth Divine goodness bow down itself, to take notice of
those mean creatures, which men have so little regard to, but for
their own advantage; yea., he is so ood, that he would have worship
declined for a time in favor of a distressed beast; the “helping a
sheep, or an ox, or an ass, out of a pit,” was indulged them even
“ on the Sabbath-day,” a day God had uliarly sanctified and or-
dered for his service (Matt. xii. 11; Lui? xiv. 52: in this case he
seems to remit for a time the rights of the Deity or the rescue of a
mere animal. His goodness extends not only to those kind of crea-
tures that have life, but to the insensible ones; he clothes the grass,
and “ arra s the lilies of the Held” with a ater glory than Solomon
had upon   throne _(Matt. vi. 28, 29); andrguch care he had of those
trees which bore fruit for the maintenance of manor beast, that he
forbids any injur to be offered to them, and bars the rapine and
violence, which by soldiers used to be practised (Deut. xx. 19);
though it were to promote the conquest of their enemy. How muc
goodness is it, that he should think of so small a thing as man!
ow much more that he should concern himself in things that seem
so petty as beasts and trees! Persons seated in a sovereign throne,
think it a debasing of their dignity to regard little things: but God,
who is infinitely greater in majesty above the mightiest potentate,
and the highest angel, et is so infinitely good, as to employ his
divine thoughts about tliie meanest things. He who possesses the
praises of angels, leaves not off the care of the meanest creatures:
and that majesty that dwells in a pure heaven, and an inconceivable
light, stoo s to provide for the ease of those creatures that lie and
lodge in tli)e dirt and dung of the earth. How should we be careful
not to use those unmercifully, which God takes such care of in his
law, and not to distrust that goodness, that opens his hand so liber-
ally to creatures of another rank!
3. The goodness of God is seen in taking care of the meanest
rational creatures; as servants and criminals. _He provided for the
liberty of slaves, and would not have their chains continue longer
than the seventh year, unless they would voluntarily continue un er
the power of their masters; and that upon pain o' his displeasure,
and the withdrawing his blessing (Deut. xv. 18). And though, by
the laws of many nations, masters had an absolute power of lite and
death over their servants, yet God provided that no member should
be lamed, not an eye, no, nor a tooth, struck out, but the master Wal

