ON rms: soonimss or son. 299
to pay for his foly and fury the price ofthe “liberty of his servant”
(Exod. xxi. 26, 2 ): he would not suffer the abused servant to be
any longer under the power of that man that had not humanity to
use him as one of the same kindred and blood with himselfi And
though those' servants might be never so wicked, yet, when unjustly
afflicted,   would   liilimself as their guarélian in their lpro-
tection an eliver . n W en a r slave ha been rovo ed,
by the severity of  master’s fury,pt(oOturn fugitive frog him, he
was, by Divine order, not to be delivered up again to his mastcr’s
fury, but dwell in that city, and with that person, to whom he had
“ fied for refuge” (Deut. xxiii. 15, 16). And when public justice
was to be admininistered upon the lesser sort of criminals, the good-
ne$ of God ordered the “number of blows” not to exceed forty, and
left not the fury of man to measure out the punishment to excess
(Dent. xxv. 3). gud in any just quarrel against a provoking and
injurin enem , e ordered them not to rav e with the sword till
they hgd sumrhoned a rendition of the £lacea?Deut. xx. 10). And
as great a. care he took of the poor, that ey should have the glean-
ings both of the vineyard and field (Lev. xix. 10; xxiii. 22), and not
"°f°sS asf “ “sv fs “‘;s°“°z.i;“;f“;;';‘   253;
. g ness is seen in n wi e rs
“The earth is fiill of his goodness”%Ps. xxxvii. 5); The wielsed as
well as the good enjoy it; they that dare lift up t eir hands against
heaven 3:11 the plogturefof rebpls,1;s will ss tlgcézz gist lui: up thgrr
eesin econ ono su ian o og acrimina,
sirmounts that goodness   flows down upon an innocent object:
now God is not onl good to those that have some degrees of good-
ness, but to those &at have the test degrees of wickedness, to
men that turn his liberality into agdiits of him, and have scarce an
gphpetite to auytlhing but tlggaviolatiogi of his aiithoriity andhgcipdness.
' ough, u n t efall of we ave ostt e peasant a itation
of paradiselioand the creatures made for our use are fallen from their
original exeellency and sweetness; yet he hath not left the world
utterly incommodious for us, but ‘yet stores it with things not only
for the preservation, but delight o those that make their whole lives
inyectives against thisfgood Gold.ed1Manpsa fejl tromcheaven for Ithe
re ellious as well as or the o 'ent rae ites. ain as wel as
Abel, and Esau as Well as Jacob, had the influences of his sun, and
the benefits of his showers. The world is yet a kind of paradise to
the veriest beasts amon mankind; the earth affords its riches, the
heavens its showers, and the sun its light, to those that injure and
bohtipheme him: “He makes his sun to rise on the evil and on the
g k, and slends rain on the just and on thehunjust;l(Ma:,1t.dv. 4]5;). Till;
wic edest reathe in his air, walk u on is eart , an rin of `
water, as well as the best. The sun ldbks with as pleasant and bright
an ye upon a rebellious Absalom, as a riglhteous 1Davi1d; the cart?
iel s its lants and medicines to one as we as to t e ot er; it is se -
dom that lie deprives any of the faculties of their souls, or any mem-
bers of their bodies. God distributes his blessings where he might
shoot his thunders; and darts his light on those who deserve an
eternal darkness; and presents the good things of the earth to those

