300 cnxmwocx ON rim Arrnrnvrrs.
that merit the miseries of hell; for “the earth, and the fulness there-
of, is the Lord’s” (Ps. xxiv. 1); everything in it is his in prop1'iety,
yours in trust; it is his corn, his wine (Hos. ii. 8); he never divested
himself of the propriety, though he grants us the use; and by those
ood things he sup orts multitudes of wicked men, not one or two,
but the whole shoal) of them in the world; for he is “ the Saviour of
all men,” i. e. is the preserver of all men (1 Tim. iv. 10). And as
he created them, when he foresaw they would be wicked; so he ro-
vides for them, when he beholds them in their-ungodliness. }fl‘he
ingratitude of men stops not the current of his bounty, nor tires his
liberal hand; howsoever un rofitable and injurious men are to him,
he is liberal to them; and his goodness is the more admirable, by
how much the more the unthankfulness of men is rovoking: he
sometimes affords to the worst a greater portion oi) these earthly
goods; they often swim in wealth, when others pine away their lives
m poverty. And the silk-worm yields its bowels to make purple
for tyrants, while the oppressed scarce have from the sheep wool
enough to cover their nakedness; and though he furnish men with
those good things, upon no other account than what plrinces do,
when they nourish criminals in a prison till the time of t eir execu-
tion, it is a mark of his goodness. Is it not the kindness of a prince
to treat his rebels deliciousl ? to give them the liberty of the prison,
and the enjoyments of the drelights of the place, rather than to load
their le s with fetters, and lodge them in a dark and loathsome dun-
geon, G5 he orders them, for their crime, to be conducted to' the scaffold
or gibbet? Since God is thus kind to the vilest men, whose mean-
ness, by reason of sin, is beyond that of any other creature, as to
shoot such rays of goodness upon them; how inexpressible would be
the expressions of his goodness, if the Divine image were as pure
and brlight upon them as it was utplon innocent Adam!
» 2d. is goodness is evident in e preservation of human society.
It belongs to his power that he is ab e to do it, but to his goodness
that he is willing to do it. ’
1. This goodness appears in prescribing rules for it. The moral law
consists but of ten precepts, and there are more of them ordered for
the support of human society, than for the adoration and honor of
himse (Exod. xx. 1, 2); four for the ri hts of God, and six for the
rights of man, and his security in his autiorit , relations, life, goods,
and reputation; superiors not to be dishonored: life notto be invaded,
chastity not to be stained, goods not to be filched, good name not to be
cracked by false witness, nor anything belonging to our neighbor to
be coveted; and in the whole Seri ture, not only that which was
calculated- for the Jews, but compiled for the whole world; he hath
fixed rules for the ordering) all relations, magistrates, and subjects;
parents and children; hus ands and wives; masters and servants;
rich and poor, find their distinct qualifications and duties. There
would be a paradisiacal state, if men had a. goodness to observe what
God hath had a goodness to order for the strengthening the sinews of
human society; the world would not groan un er oppressing tyrants,
nor (prrinces tremble under discontented subjects, or mighty rebels;
chil en would not be provoked to anger by the unreasonablena

