ON 'rua coonmrss or con. 801
of their parents, nor parents sink under grief by the rebellion of their
children; masters would not tyrannize over the meanest of their ser-
vants, nor servants invade the authority of their masters.
2. The goodness of God in the preserving human society, is seen
in setting a magstracy to preserve it. Magistracy is from God in
its original; the charter was drawn up in paradise; civil subordina-
tion must have been had man remained in innocence; but the charter
was more ex licitly renewed and enlarged at the restoration of the
world after the deluge, and given out to man under the broad seal
of heaven; “ \Vhoso sheds man's blood, by man shall his blood be
shed’l (Gen. ix. 6). The command of shedding the blood of a mur-
derer was a part of his goodness, to secure the lives of those that
bore his image. Magistrates are “the shields of the earth," but
they “belong to God‘?(Ps. xlvii. 9). They are fruits of his good-
ness in their original, and authority ; were there no magistracy, there
would be government, no security to any man under his own vine
and fig tree; the world would be a den of wild beasts reying upon
one another; every one would do what seems good in his eyes; ,the
loss of government is a judgment God brings upon a nation when
men become “ as the fishes of the sea," to devour one another, be-
cause they “have no ruler over them” (Hab. i. 14). Private dissen-
sions will break out into public disorders and combustioqs.
3. The goodness of God in the preservation of human society, is
seen in the restraints of the passions of men. He sets bounds to the
passions of men as well as to the rollings of the sea; “ He stilleth
the noise of the waves, and the tumults of the eo le” (Ps. lxv. 7).
Though God hath erected a mavistracy to stop the breaking out of
those floods of licentiousness, which swell in t e hearts of men; yet,
if God should not hold stiff reins on the necks of those tumultuous
and foaming pawions, the world would be a place of unruly confusion,
and hell triumph upon earth; a crazy state would be quickly broke in
ieces by boisterous nature. The tumults of a. peo le could no more
be quelled by the force of man, than the rage of the sea by a puff
of breath ; without Divine goodness, neither the wisdom nor watch-
fulness of the magistrates, nor the industry of officers, could reserve
a state. The laws of men would   too slight to curb the l)usts of
men, if the goodness of God did not restrain them by a secret hand,
and interweave their tem oral security with observance of those
laws. The sons of Belial tiid murmur when Saul was chosen king;
and that they did no more was the goodness of God, for the preser-
vation of human society. If God did not restrain the impetuousness
of rnen’s lusts, they would be the entire ruin of human society; their
lusts would render them as bad as beasts, and change the world into
a savaffe wilderness.
4. The goodness of God is seen in the preservation of human so-
ciety, in giving various inclinations to men for public advantage. If
all men had an inclination to one science or art, they would all stand
idle spectators of one another; but God hath bestowed various dis-
positions and gifts upon men, for the romoting the common good,
that they may not only be useful to themselves, but to society. He

