802 crmnnocx ON THE Arrnmurns.
will have none idle, none unuseful, but every one acting in a due
place,Tg;:cordi§g to thfeianr3=:as11res, for tie good of cithegb.
5. e oo esso o isseen in ewitness e ars ainst
those sins ihat disturb human society. In those cases he is Sfeased
to interest himself in a more signal manner, to cool those that make
it their business to bvertinn the order he hath established for the
good of the earth. He doth not so often in this world punish those
aults committed immediately against his own honor, as those that
put the world into a hurry and confusion: as a good governor is
more merciful to crimes against himself, than those against his com-
munity. It is observed that the most turbulent seditious plersons in
a state come to most violent ends, as Corah, Adonija , Zimri:
Ahithopel draws Absalom’s sword against David and Israel, and the
next is, he twists a halter for himself: Absalom heads aparty a ainst
his father, and God, by a goodness to Israel, hangs him up, and re-
vents not its safety by David’s indulgence, and a ture rebellion, had
life been spared b the fondness of his father. His providence is
more evident in discovering disturbers, and the causes that move
them, in defeating their enter rises, and digging the contrivers out
of their caverns and lurkin holes: in such cases, God doth so act,
and use such methods, thatie silenceth any creature from challeng-
ing any partnershi with him in the discovery. »He doth more se-
verely in this world) correct those actions that unlink the mutual ns-
sistance between man and man, and the charitable and kind corre~
spondence he would have kept up. The sins for which the “ wrath
of God comes u on the children of disobedience” (Col. iii. 5, 6) in
this world are ot? this sort; and when princes will be oppressing the
people, God will be “pouring contempt on the princes, and set the
oor on high from afhiction” (Ps. cvii. 40, 41). An evidence of
Eod’s care and kindness in the preserving human society, is those
strange discoveries of murders, though never so clandestine and
subtilly committed, more than of any other crime among men :
Divine care never a pears more than in bringing those hid en and
injurious works of darkness to light, and a due punishment. -
6. His goodness is seen in ordering mutual oiiicos to one another
against the current of men’s passions. Upon this account he ordered,
in his laws for the government ofthe Israelites, that a man should
reduce the wandering beast of his enemy to the hand of his right~
ful proprietor, though he were a provoking enemy; and also “ help
the poor beast that belonged to one that hated him, when he saw him
sink under his burden” (Exod. xxiii. 4, 5). When mutual assistance
was necessary, he would not have men considered as enemies, or
considered as wicked, but as of the same blood with ourselves, that
we might be serviceable to one another for the preservation of life
and goods. ‘
7. His goodness is seen in remitting something of his own right
for the preserving a due dependence and subjection. He declines
the right he had to the vows of a minor, or one under the power of
another, waving what he might challenge by the voluntary obliga-
tion of his creature, to keep up the due order between parents and
children, husbands and wlves, superiors and inferiors; those that

