ON ms eoonmiss or son. 803
were under_ the ower of another, as a child under his parents, or a
wife under her liiusband, if the had “vowed a vow unto the Lord,”
which concerned his honor and’ worship, it was void without the ap-
probation of that plerson under whose chartge they were (Num. xxx.
3, 4,   Thong God was the Lord o .every man’s goods, and
men but his stewards; and though he might have taken to himself
what another had offered by a vow, since whatsoever could be
offered was God’s own, though it was not the parties’ own who
offered it; yet God would not have himself adored by his creature
to the prejudice of the necessary ties of human society; he lays
aside what he might challenge by his sovereign dominion, that there
might not be any breach of that r lar order which was necessary
for the preservation of the world. eil Divine goodness did not thus
order things, he would not do the part of a Rector of the world;
the beauty of the world would be much defaced, it would be a con-
fused mass of men and women, or rather, beasts and bedlams. Order
renders every cit , every nation, yea, the whole earth, beautiful:
this is an eifect oiy Divine goodness.
3d. His goodness is evident in encouraging anything of moral good-a
ness in the world. Though moral goodness cannot claim an eternal
reward, yet it hath been man times rewarded with a temporal hap-
piness; he hath often si y rewarded acts of honesty, justice,
and fidelity, and punishe the contrary by his judgments, to deter
man from such an unworthy ractice, and encourage others to what
was comely, and of a generall good report in the world. Ahab’s
humiliation put a demurrer to God's Judgments intended against
him; and. some ascribe the great victories and success of the Romans
to that justice which was observed among themselves. Baruch was
but an amanuensis to the Prophet Jeremy to write his prophecy, and
very despondent of his own welfare (Jer. xlv. 13); God ufpon that
account provides for his safety, and rewards the industry o his ser-
vice with the security of his person; he was not a statesman, to de-
clare against the corrupt counsels of them that sat at the helm, nor
a prophet, to declare against their profane plractices, but the prophet’s
scribe ; and as he writes in God’s service t e prophecies revealed to
the prophet, God writes his name in the roll of t ose that were de-
signed or preservation in that deluge of judgments which were to
come upon that nation. Epicurus complained of the administration
of God, that the virtuous moralist had not suflicient smiles of Divine
favor, nor the swinish sensualist frowns of Divine indignation. But
what if they have not always that confluence of outward wealth and
pleasures, but remain in the common level Ydyet they have the hap-
pmess and satisfaction of a clear reputation, e esteem of men, and
the secret applauses of their very enemies, besides the inward ravish-
ments upon an exercise of virtue, and the commendatory subscri
tion of their own hearts, a dainty the vicious man knows not oi:
they have an inward applause from God as a reward of Divine
goodness, instead of those racks oi? conscience upon which the ro-
fane are sometimes stretched. He will not let the worst men do him
any service (though they never intended in the act of service him,
but themselves) without giving them their wages: he will not let

