304 cH_u1NocK ON 'run yrrnrsurms.
them hit him in the teeth as if he were beholden to them. If Nebu-
chadnezzar be the instrument of God’s judgments against Tyrus and
Israel, he will not only give him that rich city, but a richer countiiy,
Egypt, the gran for her neighbors, a wages above his work. n
this is Divine goaddhess eminent, since, in the most moral actions, as
there is something beautiful, so there is something mixed, hateful to
the iniinitely exact holiness of the Divine nat1u°e; get he will not
let that which is pleasing to him go unrewarded, an defeat the ex-
ectations of men, as men do with those they employ, when, for one
saw in an action, the deny them the reward due for the other part.
God encouraged and ke t u morality in the cities of the Gentiles
for the entertainment oi) a fpiuther goodness in the doctrine of the
gospel when it should be published among them.
4th. Divine goodness is eminent in providing a Scripture as a rule
to guide us, and continuing it in the world. If man be a rational
creature, govemable by a law, can it be imavined there should be no
revelation of that law to him? Man, by the light of reason, must
needs confess himself to be in another condition than he was by cre-
ation, when he came first out of the hands of God; and can it be
thought, that God should keep up the world under so many sins
against the light of nature, an bestow so many providential influ-
ences, to invite men to return to him, and ac uamt no men in the
world with the means of that return? Woul(d he exalct an obedi-
ence of men, as their consciences witness he doth, and furnish them
with no rules to guide them in the darkness they cannotbut acknowl-
edge that they have contracted? No; Divine oodness hath other-
wise provided: this Bible we have is his word and rule. Had it
been a falsity and imposture, would that goodnws, that watches over
the world, have continued it so long? That oodness that overthrew
the burdensome rites of Moses, and expelleg the foolish idolatry of
the Pagans, would have discovered the imposture of this, had it not
been a transcript of his own will. Whatever mistakes he suffers to
remain in the world, what goodness had there been to suffer this an-
ciently amongst the Jews, and afterwards to o en it to the whole
world, to abuse men in religion and worship, wrhich so nearly con-
cerned himself and his own honor, that the world should be deceived
by the devil without a remed in the mornin of its appearance 7
It hath been honored and adymired by some ieathens, when they
have cast their eyes u on it, and their natural light made them be-
hold some footste s oi) a Divinity in it. If this, therefore, be not a
Divine prescript, liet any that deny it, bringqas good arguments for
any book else, as can be brought for this. ow, the publishing this
is an argument of Divine goodness: it is designed to win the affec-
tions of beggarly man, to c espoused to a God of eternal blessed-
ness and immense riches. It speaks words in season: no doubts but
it resolves; no spiritual distemper but it clues; no condition but it
hath a comfort to suit it. It is a garden which the hand of Divine
bounty hath planted for us; in it he condescends to shadow himself
in those ex ressions that render him in some manner intelligible to
us. Had (iaod wrote in a lottiness of style suitable to the greatness
of his majesty, his writing had been as little understood by us, as the

