\ _
_ ON THE Goomrmss or con. 305
brightness of his glory can be beheld by us. But hefdraws phrases
from our affairs, to express his mind to us; he incarnates himself in
his word to our minds, before his Son was incarnate in the flesh to
the eyes of men: he ascribes to himself eyes, ears, hands, that we
might have, from the consideration of ourselves, and the whole hu-
man nature, a conception of his perfections: he assumes to himself
the members of our bodies, to direct our understandings in the knowl-
edge of his Deity; this is his goodness. Again, though the Scrip-
ture was written upon several occasions, yet in the dictating of it,
the goodness of God cast his eye upon the last ages of the world
(1 Cor. x. 11% “ They are written for our admonition, upon whom
the ends of t e worl are come." It was given to the Israelites, but
Divine goodness intended it for the future Gentiles. The old writ-
ings of the prophets were thus designed, much more the later writ-
ings of the apostles. Thus did Divine goodness think of us, and
prepare his records for us, before we were in the world: these he
at written tplain for our instruction, and wrapped up in them what
is necessary or our salvation: it is clear to i crm our understand~
ing, and rich to comfort us in our misery; it is a light to guide us,
and a cordial to refresh us; it isa lamp to our feet, and a medicine
for our disemes; a purifier of our Hlth, and a restorer of us in our
iaintings. He hath by his goodness sealed the truth of it, by his
eiiicacy on multitudes of men : he hath made it the “word of regen~
eration” (James i. 18). Men, wilder and more monstrous than beasts,
have been tamed and changed by the power of it: it hath raised
multitudes of dead men from a grave fuller of horror thanfany earthly
one. Again, Goodness was in all ages sending his letters of advice
and counsel from heaven, till the canon of the Scripture was closed;
sometimes he wrote to chide a froward eople, sometimes to cheer
up an oppressed and disconsolate people, according to the state
wherein they were; as we may o serve by the several seasons
wherein parts of Scri ture were written. It was His goodness that
he first revealed anything of his will after the fall; it was a further
degree of goodness, that he would add more cubits to its stature; be-
fore he would la aside his pencil, it grew up to that bull; wherein
we have it. And his goodness is further seen in the reservin it;
he hath trium hed over the powers that opposed it, and) showed him-
self good to the instruments. that propa ated it: he hath maintained
it against the blasts of hell, and spread it in all languages against
the obstructions of men and devils. The sun of his word is by his
kindness preserved in our horizon, as well as the sun in the heavens.
How admirable is Divine goodness! He hath sent his Son to die for
us, and his written word to instruct us, and his Spirit to edge it for
an entrance into our souls: he hath opened the womb of the earth
to nourish us, and sent down the records of heaven to direct us in
our pilgrimage: he hath provided the earth for our habitation, while
we are travellers, and sent his word to acquaint us with a felicity at
the end of our journey, and the way to attain in another world what
we want in this, mls. a happy immortality.
5th. His goodness in his government is evident, in conversions of
men. Thcgiégh this work be wrought by his power, yet his power
von.. u.-

