806 CHAR-NOGK ON THE ATPRIBUTES.
was first solicited by his goodness. It was his rich goodness that he
would emlploy his power to pierce the scales of a heart as hard as
those of t e “levia.than.” It was this that opened the ears of men
to hear him, and draws them from the hurry of worldlfy cares, and
the charms of sensual pleasures, and, which is the top o all, the un
postures and cheats of their own hearts. It is this that sends a spark
of his wrath into men’s consciences, to ut them to a stand in sin,
that he might not send down a shower otpbrimstone eternally to con-
sume their persons. This it was that first showed you the excellcnc
of the Redeemer, and brought you to taste the sweetness of his blooi
and find your security in the agonies of his death. It is his good-
ness to ca one man and not another, to turn Paul in his course, and
lay hold of no other of his com ions. It is his goodness to call
any, when he is not bound to callaiine. _ -
1. It is his goodness to pitch upon mean and des icable men in
the eye of the world; to call this poor publican, ami) overlook that
prou Pharisee, this man that sits upon a dunghill, and neglect him
that glisters in his purple. His majesty is not enticed by the lofty
titles of men, nor, which is more worth, by the learning and know -
edge of men. “Not many wise, not many mighty," not many doc-
tors, not many lords, though some of them; but his goodness con-
descends to t e “base things" of the world, and things which are
“despised” (1 Cor. i. 26-28). “The poor receive the ospel” (Matt.
xi. 5), when those that are more acute, and furnished with a more
apprehensive reason, are not touched by it.
2. The worst men. He seizeth sometimes upon men most soiled,
and neglects others that seem more clean and less polluted He turns
men in their coluse in sin, that, by their infernal pgactices, have
seemed tohave one to school to hell, and to have suc ed in the sole
instructions of ghe devil. He lays hold u n some when they are
most under actual demerit, and snatches tliigm as fire-brands out of
the fire, as upon Paul when fullest of rage against him; and shoots
a beam of grace, where nothing could be justly expected but a thun-
derbolt of wrath. It is his goodness to -visit any, when they lie pu~
trefying in their loathsome lusts; to draw near to them who have
been guilty of the greatest contempt of God, and the light of nature;
the murdering Manassehs, the persecuting Sauls, the Christ-cruciijw
ing Jews,- persons in whom lusts had had a peaceable possession
and empire iihr many years.
8. His goodness appears in converting men possessed with the
greatest enmity against him, while he was dealing with them. All
were in such a state, and framing contrivances against him, when
Divine goodness knocked at the door (Col. i. 21). He looked after
us when our backs were turned upon him, and sought us when we
slighted him, and were a “ gainsaymg people” (Rom. x. 21% when we
had shaken oif his convictions, and contended with our aker, and
mustered u the powers of nature against the alarms of conscience;
struggled like wild bulls in a. net, and blunted those darts that stuck
in our souls. Not a man that is turnid to gm, liilut pzilds lifted up
the heel against his gospel grace, as wel as m e lig t o ` creatin
goodness., Yet it hath employed itself about such ungratefld

