on 'mn soonnnss or son. 307
wretches, to polish those knotty and rugged pieces for heaven; and
so invincibly, that he would not have is goodness defeated by the
iierceness and rebellion of the flesh. /Though the thin was more
difficult in itself (if anything may be said to have a ifliculty to
omnipotency) than to make a stone live, or to turn a straw into a
marb e pillar. The malice of the flesh makes a man more uniit for
the one, than the nature of the straw unfits it for the other.
4. His goodness appears in turning men, when they were pleased
with their own misery, and unable to deliver themselves; when they
preferred a hell before him, and were in love with their own vileness;
when his call was our torment, and his neglect of us had been ac-
counted our felicity. Was it not a mighty oodness to kee the
light close to our eyes, when we endeavored togblow it out; and the
corrosive near to our hearts, when we endeavored to tear it oii, being
more fond of our disease than the remedy? We should have been
scalded to death with the Sodomite, had not God laid his good hand
upon us, and drawn us from the a roaching ruin we affected, and
were loath to be freed from. An<i)had we been displeased with our
state, yet we had been as unable spiritually to raise ourselves
from sin to grace, as to raise ourselves naturally from nothing to be-
ing. In this state we were when his goodness triumphed over us;
when he put a hook into our nostrils, to turn us in order to our sal~
vation; and drew us out of the pit which we had digged, when he
might have leii us to sink under the rigors of his justice we had
merited. Now this goodness in conversion is greater than that in
creation; as in creation there is nothing to oppose him, so there was
nothing to disoblige him; creation was terminated to the good of a
mutable nature, and conversion tends to a supernatural ood. God
pronounced all creatures ood at iirst, and man among 'Sie rest, but
did not pronounce any ofg them, or man himself] his “portion,” his
"inheritance," his “ segullah," his “ house,” his “ diadem." He
speaks slightly of all those things which _he made, the noblest
heavens, as well as the lowest earth, in com arisen of a true con-
vert: “ All those things hath mine hand made, and all those things
have been: but to this man will I look, to him that is of a contrite
spirit” (Isa. lxvi. 1, 2). It is more goodness to give the espousing
grace of the covenant, than the completing glory of heaven; as it is
more for a prince to marry a beggar, than only to bring her to live
deliciously in his courts. All other benehts are of a meaner strain,
if com ared with this; there is little less of goodness in imparting
El? holiness of his nature, than imputing the righteousness of his
n.
6th. 'I‘he Divine oodness doth appear in answering prayers. He
delights to be fam§iar% acquainted with his people, and to hear
them call upon him. e indulgeth them a free access to him, and
delights in every address of an “ upright man” (Prov. xv. 8). The
wonderful efiicacy of prayer depen s not upon the nature of our pe-
titions or the t»;-:npcr of our soul, but the goodness of God to whom
we address. Christ establisheth it upon this bottom: when he ex-
horts to ask in his name, he tells them the spring of all their grants
is the Father-'s love: “I say not, I will pray the Father for vou, for
r

