808 cnnmocz ON 'ran Armrsurss.
the Father himself loves you” (John xvi. 26, 27). And since it is
of itself incredible, that a Majesty, exalted above the cherubims,
should stoop so low as to give a miserable and rebellious creature
admittance to him, and afford him a cious hearing, and a quick
supply, Christ ushers in the promise ofgdiiswering rayer with a note
of great assinanee: “ I say unto you, Ask, and it sliiall be `ven you”
(I uke xi. 9, 10). I, that know the mind of my Father, anlil his ood
disposition, assure you your prayer shall not be in vain. ~ Peiaps
you will not be so ready of yourselves to ima 'ne so great a liber-
ality; but take it upon my word, it is true, anfho you will find it.
And his bounty travels, as it were, in birth, to give the greatest
blessings, u n our asking, rather than the smallest: “your heavenly
Father shallmgive his Holy S irit to them that ask h1m” (ver. 13):
which in Matt. vii. 11, is called, “ ood things.” Of all the good
and rich things Divine goodness hail in his treasury, he delights to
give the best upon asking, because God doth act so as to manifest
the greatness o his bounty and magnificence to men; and, therefore,
is delighted when men, by their petitioning him, own such a liberal
disposition in him, and ut him upon the manifesting it. He would
rat er you should ask diie greatest things heaven can afford, than
the trii-les of this world; because his bounty is not discovered in
meaner gifts: he loves to have an opportunity to manifest his affec-
tion above the liberality and tenderness of worldly fathers. He doth
more wait to ive in a way of grace, than we to beg; and, “there-
fore, will the Inrd wait, that he may be gracious unto you” (Isa. xxx.
18). He stands expecting your suits, and employs his wisdom in
pitching upon the fittest seasons, when the` manifestation of his
goodness may be most gracious in itself, and the mere you want
most welcome to you; as it follows, “for the Lord is a Gbd of judg-
ment.” He chooseth the time wherein his doles may be most ac-
ceptable to his suppliants; “In an ance table time have I heard
thee” (Isa. xlix. 8`. He often opens his hand while we are opening
our lips, and his blessings meet our petitions at the first setting out
upon their 'ourney to heaven : “ While they are yet speaking, I will
hear” (Isa. ixv. 24). How often do we hear a secret voice within us,
while we are praying, saying, “ Yom' prayer is granted ;” as Well as
hear a voice behind us, while we are errin , sa ing, “Thisis the
way, walk in it I" And his liberality exceeds ogen our desires, as
we l as our deserts; and gives out more than we had the wisdom or
confidence to ask. The apostle intimates it in that doxologv, “ Unto
Him who is able to do abundantl above all`that we ask or think”
(Eph. iii. 20). This power wouldy not have been so strong an argu-
ment of comfort, if it were never put in practice; he is more liberal
than his creatures are craving. .Abraham petitioned for the life of
Ishmael, and God promiseth him the “birth of Isaac” (Gen. xvii; 18,
19). Isaac asks for a “ child,” and God gives him “two” (Gen. xxv.
21, 22). Jacob desires “food” to eat, and “raiment” to put on;
God confines not his bounty within the narrow limits of his petition,
but instead of a “ staff,” wherewith, he passed Jordan, makes him re-
pass it with “two bands” (Gen.   20). David asked life of God,
and he gave him “ life,” and a “crown” to boot (Ps. xxi. 2-5). The

