. ON 'mn coommss or con. 809
Israelites would have been contented with a free life in E t; they
only cried to have their chains struck off; God gave therglthat, and
adopts them to be his “peculia.r people,” and raises them into a fa-
mous state. It is a wonder that God should condescend so much,
that he should hear prayers so weak, so cold, so wandering, and
gather up our sincere petitions from the dung of our distractions and
itiidence. David vents his astonishment at it; “Blessed be God,
for he hath shown me marvellous kindness. I said in my haste, I am
cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless, thou heardest the voice
of my supplication” (Ps. xxxi 21, 22). How do we wonder at the
goodness of a petty man, in granting our desires; how much more
should we at the humility and goodness of the most sovereign
Majesty of heaven and earth!
7th. The goodness of God is seen in bearing with the iniirmities
of his people, and accepting imperfect obedience. Though Asa had
many lots in his escutcheon, yet they are overlooked, and this note
set upon record by Divine goodness, that his heart was perfect to-
wards the Lord all his days; “But the high places were not re-
moved: nevertheless, Asa’s heart was perfect with the Lord all his
days” (1 Kings, xv. 14). He takes notice of a sincere, though
chequered obedience, to reward it, which could claim nothing but a
slight from him, if he were extreme to mark what is done amiss.
When.there is not an op ortunity to work, but only to will, he ac~
cepts the will, as if it had) passed into work and act. _ He sees no in-
iquity in Jacob (Numb. xxiii. 21), i. e. He sees it not so as to cast
off a respect to their persons, and the acceptance of their services:
his omniscience knows their sins, but his goodness doth not reject
their persons. He is of so good a disposition, that he delights in a
weak obedience of his servants, not in the imperfection, but in the
obedience (Ps. xxxvii. 23); “He delights in the way of a good
man,” though he sometimes slips in it: he 'accepts a poor man’s
pigeon, as well as a rich rnan’s ox: he hath a bottle for the tears,
and a book for the “services of the upright,” as well as for the most
perfect obedience of angels (Ps. lvi. S): he preserves their tears, as
if they were a rich and generous wine, as the vine-dresser doth the
expressions of the grape.
8th, The goodness of God is seen in afilictions and persecutions
If it be “good for us to be afflicted,”-for which we have the salm-
ist’s vote (Ps. cxix. 71), then goodness in God is the principalpcause
and orderer of the aliiictions. It is his goodness to snatch away
that whence we fetch sup rts for our security, and encouragemeuts
for our insolence against §i)m: he takes away the thing which we
have some value for, but such as his infinite wisdom sees inconsist-
ent with our true happiness. It is no ill-will in the physician to
take away the hurtful matter the patient loves, and prescribe bitter
potions, to advance that health which~ the other impaired; nor any
mark of unkindness in a friend, to wrest a sword out of a madman’s
hand, wherewith he was about to stab himself, though it were beset
with the most orient pearls. To prevent what is evil, is to do us the
greatest good. It is a kindness to prevent a man from falling down
a precipice, though it be with a. vio ent blow, that lays him flat upon

