310 ~ cnaimocx ON 'rss Arrmnurss. .
the ground at some distance from -the edge of it. By aiiiictions he
often snaps asunder those chains which fettered us, and quells those
passions which ravaged us : he sharpens our faith, _and ciluickens our
prayers; he brings us in the secret chamber of our own eart, which
we had little mind before to visit by a selilexamination. It is such
a goodness that he will vouchsafe to correct man in order to his
eternal hap iness, that Job makes it one part of his astonishment
(Job. vii. lg); “What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him?
that thou shouldest set thy heart upon him? and that thou shouldest
visit him every morning, and try him every moment?" His strokes
are often the magnifyings and exaltings of man. He sets his heart
uplon man, while he iufiicts the smart of his rod: he shows thereby,
w at a high account he makes of him, and what a special affection
he bears to him. When he might treat us with more severity after
the breach of his covenant, and make his jealousy ilame out against
us in furious methods, he will not destroy his relation to us, and
leave us to our own inclinations, but deal with us as a father with
his children; and when he takes this course with us, it is when it
cannot be avoided without our ruin: his goodness would not suifer
him to do it, if our badness did not force him to it (Jer. ix. 7), “I
will melt them and try them, for how shall I do for the daughter of
my people Y” What other course can I take but this, according to
the nature of man? The goldsmith hath no other way to separate
the dross from the metal, but by melting it down. And when the
impurities of his people necessitate him to this proceeding, “ he sits
as a refiner” (Mal. iii. 3); he watches for the purifying the silver,
not for his own profit as the goldsmith, but out of a care of them,
and good will to them; as himself speaks (Isa. xlviii. 10), “I have
refined thee( but not with silver ;” or, as some read it, “ not for sil-
ver.” As when he scatters his people abroad for their sin, he will
not leave themwithout his presence for their “sanctu.a.ry;' (Ezek. xi.
16): he would by his presence with them su pl the p ce of ordi-
nances, or be an ark to them in the midst ol; tlile deluge: his hand
that struck them, is never without a goodness to comfort them and
pity them. When Jacob was to go into Egypt, which was to prove
a iiunace of atlfliction to his oftsprin , God promisesto go down with
him, and to “bring him up aiain” (éen. xlvi. 4); a promise not only
made to Jacob in his person, ut to Jacob in his posterity. He re-
turned not out of E pt in his person, but as the father of a nu-
merous sterity. %e that would go down with their root, and
afterwardli) bring up the branches, was certainly with them in all
their o pre ions: “I will go down with thee.” “ Down,” saith
one; what a word is that for a Deity I into Egy t, idolatrous E t;
what a place is that for his holiness li Yet O, the goodness of gli!
He never thinks himself low enough to do his peo le good, nor any
place too bad for his society with t em. So when he had sent away
into captivity the people of Israel lg the hand of the Assyrian, his
bowels yearn after thcm in their a iction (Isa. lii. 4, 5); the Am -
rian “oppressed them without cause,” 'L e. without a just cause in tlile
conqueror to inflict so ' great an evil upon them, but not without
\ Harwood’s Sermon at Oxford, p. 5.

