ON 'rss ooomrnss or son. 811
cause from God, whom they had rovoked. “ Now, therefore, what
have I here, saith the Lord ?" Véhat do I here? I will not stay
behind them. What do I longer here? for I will redeem again
those jewels the enemy hath carried awa . That chapter is a pro~
phecy of redemption: God shows himself? so good to his people in
their E-ersecutions, that he :gives them occasion to lorify him in the
very es, as the Divine o er is (Isa. xxiv. 15), “%Vherefore glorify
the Lord in the tires.” `
9th. The goodness of God is seen in tem tations. In those he
»akes occasion to show his care and watchtlilness, as a father uses
the distress of a child as an opportunity for manifesting the tender-
ness of his affection. God is at the beginning and end of every
temptation; he measures out both the quality and uantit : he ex-
poseth them not to temptation beyond the abilityclie had already
ganted them, or will at the time, ovafterwards multi ly in them.
e hath promised his people that “the gate of hell shall not revail
against them" (1 Cor. x. 13): that “in all things” they shall be
“more than conquerors through Him that loved themz’ that the
most raging malice of hell shall not wrest them out of his hands.
His goodness is not less in erforming than it was in promising:
and as the care of his roviclienee extends to the least as well as the
greatest, so the watchfiilness of his goodness extends to us in the
east as well as in the greatest temptations.
1. The goodness of God appears in shortening temptations. None
of them can go beyond their “appointed times” (Dan. xi. 3-5): the
strong blast Satan breathes cannot blow, nor the waves he raises
rage one minute beyond the time God allows them ; when they have
done their work, and come to the riod of their time, God speaks
the word, and the wind and sea otplglell must obey him, and retire
into their dens. The more violent temptations are, the shorter time
doth God allot to them. The assaults Christ had at the time of his
death were of the most pressing and urging nature: the powers of
darkness were all in arms against him; the reproaehes and scorns
ppt upon him, questioning his sonship, were very sharp; yet a little
fore his suffering he calls it but an hour (Luke xxii. 53), “ This is
your hour, and the power of darkness." A short time that men and
devils were combined against him; and the time of temptation that
is to come upon all the world for their trial, is called but an “ hour”
(Rev. iii. 10). In all such attempts, the greatness of the rage is a
certain prognostic of the shortness of the season (Rev. xii. 12).
2. The goodness of God appears in strengthening his geop e un-
der temptations. If he doth not restrain the arm of Satan from
striking, he 'ves us a sword to man e the combat, and a shield to
bear off the ilow (Eph. vi. 16, 17). ala' he obscures his goodness in
one part, he clears and brightens it in another: he either binds the
strong man that he shall not stir, or gives ns armor to render us
victorious. If we fall, it is not for want of rovision from him, but
for want of our “putting on the armor ofpGod” (Eph. vi. 11, 13).
When we have not a strength by nature, he gives it us blggracez he
often guells those passions within which wou d join han with, and
lecon the temptation without. He either qualifies the temptation

