812 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
suitably to the force we have, or else supplies us with r new strength
to mate the temptation he intends to let loose against us; he knows
we are but dust, and his goodness will not have us unequally match-
ed. The Jews that in Antiochus’ time were under great temptation
to apostasy by reason of the violence of their Eersecutions, were,
“out of weakness, made strong” for the combat ( eb. xi. 34). The
Spirit came more strongly upon Sampson when the Philistines most
furiously and confident y assaulted him. His Spirit is sent to
strengthen his pleople before the devil is permitted to tempt them
(Matt. iv. Zg; “ hen was Jesus led u of t e Spirit." Then; When?
When the pirit had in an extraordiinary manner descended upon
him (Matt. iii. 16), “ then,” and not before. As the anglels appeared
to Christ, after his temptation, to minister to him, so t ey appeared
to him before his passion, the time of the strongest powers pf dark-
ness, to strengthen him for ite he is so good, that when he knows
our potsherd strength too weak, he furnisheth o1u° recruits from his
own omnipotence (Eph. i. IOL; “ Be stroniin the Lord, and in the
power of is might." $2 dot , as it were, reathe in something of
is own almightiness, to assist us in om' wrestling against principal-
ities and powers, and make us capable to sustain the violent storms
of the enemies.
3. The goodhess of God is seen in temptations, in giving great
comforts in or after them. The Israelites ad a more immediate
rovision of marina from heaven when they were in the wilderness.
Tile read not that the Father spake audibly to the Son, and gave him
so loud a testimony, that he was his “beloved Son, in whom he was
well pleased,” till he was upon the brink of strong templtations
(Matt. iii. 17): nor sent angels to minister immediately to is per-
son, till after his success (Matt. iv.   Job never had such evi-
dences of Divine love till after he h felt the sharp strokes of Sa-
tan’s malice; he had heard of God before, by the “hearing of the
ear," but afterwards is admitted into greater familiarity (Job. xlii.
5): he had more choice appearances, clearer illuminations, and more
lively instructions. And, though his peolgle fall into temptation,
yet, after their rising, they have more sign marks of his favor than
others liave, orthemselves, before they fell. Peter had been the
butt of Satan’s rage, in tempting him to deny Christ, and he had
shamefully complied with the temptation; yet, to him particularly,
must the first news of the Redeemer’s resurrection be carried, by
God’s order, in the mouth of an angel (Mark xvi. 7); “ Go your
ways, tell his disciples, and Peter.” We have the greatest commu~
nion with God after a victory; the most refreshing truths after the
devil hath done his worst. God is ready to furnish us with strength
in a combat, and cordials after it.
4. The goodness of God is seen in temptations, in discovering and
advancing inward grace by this means. The issue of a temptation
of a Christian is often like that of Christ’s, the manifesting a greater
vigor of the Divine nature, in affections to God, and enmity to sin.
Spices perfume not the air with their scent till they are invaded by
the fire: the truth of (grace is evidenced by them. The assault of
an enemy revives, an actuates that strength and coinage which is

