ON ms Goonnsss or con. ' 313
nn a man, perhaps unkno n to himself] as well as others, till he
meets with an adversary: any seem go d, not that they are so in
themselves, but for want o a temptation: his many times verifies
a virtue, which was owned u on trust be ore, and discovers that wc
had more grace than we thought we . The solicitations of
Joseph’s mistress cleared up his chastity: we are many times under
temptation, as a candle under he snuffer; it seems to be out., but
prwently burns the clearer. fllictions are like those clouds which
ook black, and eclipse the sun from the earth, but yet, when they
drop, refresh that ground they seem to threaten, and multiply the
grain on the earth, to serve for our food; and so our troubles, while
they wet us to the skin, wash much of that dust from our graces
which in a clearer day had been blown upon us_Q Too much rest
corrupts; exercise teacheth us to manage our wea ons: the spiritual
armor would grow rusty, without opportunity to lgurbish it up; faith
receives a new heart by every combat, and by every victory; like a
ire, it spreads itself further, and gathers strength by the blowing of
the wind. While the gardener commands his servant to shake the
tree, he intends to fasten its roots and settle it firmer in its place;
and is this an ill-will to the planti
5. His goodness is seen in tem tations, in preventing sin which
we were likely to £111 into. Paulls thorn in the flesh was to prevent
the pride of his spirit, and let out the windiness of ` heart (2 Cor.
xii. 7), lest it should be exalted above measure. The goodness of
God makes the devil a polisher, while he intends to be a destroye_§
The devil never works, but suitably to some corruption lurking In
us: Divine goodness makes his Bery darts a means to discover, and
so to prevent the treachery of that perfidious inmate in our hearts;
humility is a greater benefit than a. putrefging pride; if God brings
us into a wilderness to be tempted of the evil, it is to bring down
our loftiness, to starve our carnal confidence, and expel our rusting
“security” (Deut. viii. 2); we many times fly under a temptation to
God, from whom we sat too loose before. Is it not goodness to use
those means that may drive us into his own arms? It is not a want
of goodness to soap the garment, in order to take away the spots;
we have reason to bless God for the assaults from hell, as well as
pure mercies from heaven; and it is a sin to overlook the one as
well as the other, since Divine goodness shines in both.
6. The goodness of God is seen in temptations, in ‘fitting us more
for his service. Those whom God intends to make choice instru-
ments in his service, are first seasoned with strong temptations, as
timber reserved for the strong beams of a building is first exposed tc
sun and wind, to make it more compact for its proper use. By this
men are brought to answer the end of their creation, the service of
God, which is their proper goodness. Peter was, after his foil by
a temptation, more courageous in his Master’s cause than before, and
the more fitted to strengthen his brethren.
Thus the goodness of God appears in all arts of his government.
V. I shall now come to the Use. First, gf instruction.
1. IfGod be so good, how unworth is the contempt or abuse of
nis goodness! (L) The contempt and' abuse of Divine goodness is

