314 CHABNOCK ON 'rss Arrnrsvrss.
frequent and common; it began in the Srst ages of the world, and
commenceda few moments after the creation; it hath not to this
day diminished its affronts; Adam began the dance, and his ~
terity have followed him; the injury was directed against this, wh;
ne entertained the seduoer’s notion of God’s being an envious Deity,
in not indulging such a knowledge as he might have aiforded him
(Gen. iii. 5): “God doth know, that you shall be as gods, knowi1;§~
good and evil.” The charge of envy is utterly inconsistent wi
pure (goodness. What was t e language of this notion, so easily enter-
taine by Adam, but that the tempter was better than God, and the
nature of God as base and sordid as the nature of a devil? Satan
paints God with his own colors, represents him as envious and ma-
`cious as himself; Adam admires, and believes the picture to be
true, and hangs it up as abeloved one in the closet of his heart. The
devil still drives on the same game, fills men’s hearts with the same
sentiments, and by the same means he murdered om' first arents, he
redoubles the stabs to hisposterity. Every violation of tie Divine
law is a contempt of God’s goodness, as well as his sovereignt , be-
cause his laws are the roducts both of the one and the other. good
ness animates them, while sovereignty enjoys them: God hath com-
manded nothing but what doth conduce to our happiness. All dis-
obedience im lies, that his law is a snare to entrap us, and make us
miserable, ang not an act of kindness, to render us happy, which is
a disparagement to this perfection, as if he had commanded what
would promote our misery, and prohibited what would conduce to
our blessedness: to go far from him, and walk after vanity, is tc
charge him with our iniquity, and unrighteousness, baseness, and
cruelty, in his commands: God implies it by his speech (Jer. ii. 5),
“What iniquity have your fathers found in me, that they are gone
far from me, and walked after vanity ?” as it, like a tyrant, he had
consulted cruelty in the composure of them, and designed to feast
himself with the blood and misery of his creatures. Every sin is, in
its own nature, a denial of God to be the chiefest good and happi-
ness, and implies that it is no great matter to lose him: it is a» for-
saking him as the Fountain of Life, and a preferring a cracked and
“ enipt cistern” as the chief happiness before him (Jer. ii. 13 .
Though sin is not so evil as God is good, yet it is the reatest evi
and stands in opposition to God as the greatest good. gin disorders
the frame of the world; it endeavored to frustrate all the communi-
cations of Divine goodness in creation, and to stop up the way of
any further streams of it tohis creatures.
(2.) The abuse and contempt of the Divine goodness is base and
disingenious. It is the highest wickedness, because God is the high-
est oodness, pure goodness that cannot have anything in him
worthy of our contempt. Let men injure God under what notion
they will, they injure his goodness; because all his attributes are
summed up in this one, and all, as it were, deihed by it. For what-
soever power or wisdom he might have, if he were destitute of this
he were not God: the eontem t of his goodness implies him to be
the greatest evil, and worst of) beings. Badness, not goodnem, is the
pmper object of contempt: as respect is a propension of mind to

