oN THE ooonrrms or son. 815
something that is good, so contem t is an alienation of the mind
from something as evil, either simply or supposedly evil in its nature,
or base or unworthy in its action towards t at person that contemns
it.   men desire nothing but what they apprehend   be good, so
they shght nothing but what they apprehen to be - evil: since no-
thing, therefore, is more contemned b us than Goo, nothing more
spurned at by us tléag God, lit will folllow tlaat wie regard him as the
mom loathsorne an es ica le bein , whic is t e test baseness.
And our contem t of hhn is worse aan that of thegdiiilrils; they in-
ilure ,him under tiie inevitable strokes of his justice, and we slight
im when we are surrounded with the expressions of his bounty;
they abuse him under vials of Wrath, and we under a plenteous lib-
era `ty: they malice him, because he inflicts on them what is hurt-
ful; and we despise him, because he commands what is profitable,
holy, and honorable, in its own nature, though not in our esteem.
They are no; undker thgse -high obligations; as we; theyhablésge his
creatin , an we is re eemin oodness: e never sent is n to
shed a drop of blood for their §e§ove ; they can ex t nothing but
the torment of their persons, and therdestruction of thiiir works; but
we abuse that goodness that would rescue us since we are miserable,
as well as that righteousness which created us innocent. How base
is it to use him so ill, that is not once or twice, but a daily, hourly
Benefactor to us; whose rain drops upon the earth for our food, and
whose sun shines upon the earth or our pleasure as well as profit:
such a Benefactor as is the true Proprietor of what we have, and
ghinks nothing t/és good for giem that glgirglpupveryfthingl tpgse much
or his servicel ow unwort is it to ` t o suc car-
riage towards him, whose bengfits we cannot wagit, nor live withoutl
How disinfenious both to God and ourselves, to “despise the riches
of his oo ness, that are designed to lead us torepentance" (Rom. 
4), ann? by that to happiness! And. more heinous are the sins of re-
newed men upon this aocount, because they are against his “ good-
ness" not only oifered to them, but tasted by them ; not only against
thlpariotion o goodniss, but gigs experience of goodness, an the rel-
IS sweetness o c oicest unt .
(3). God takes this contempgr of his goodness heinously. He
ngver upbgaids mpin saith aiiytliingl in thlpsgcéripgure, buti wgth the
auseo te oo tins e at vouc e tem,an teun-
mindfulness ofgthe obligziions arising from them. This he bears
with the greatest regret and indignation. Thus the u braids Eli
with the preference of him to the priesthood above otiier families
(1 Sam. ii. 28): and David with his exaltation to the crown of Israel
(2 Sam. xii. 7-9), when they abused those honors to carelessness
and liccntiousness. All sins offend God, but sins against his good-
ness do more disparage him; and, therefore, his furv is the greater,
py howfmucih the more liberallydhis benefits have been dispjnsgd.
t was ora use of Divine oo ness,as soon asitwas taste ,t at
some angels were hurled him their blessed habitation and more
hagqy nature: it was for this Adam lost his present enjoyments,
an uture happiness, for the abuse of God’s goodness in creation.
For the abuse of God’s goodness the old world fell under the fury

