5816 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'1’RIBU'I'ES.
of the Hood; and for the contempt of the Divine goodness in re
dem tion, Jerusalem, once the darling city of the infinite Monarch
fof tile world, was made an Aceldema, a field of blood. For this
cause it is, that candlesticks have been removed, great lights put
out, nations overturned, and ignorance hath triumphed in laces
bright before with the beams of heaven. God would have littll; care
of his own oodness, if he always prostituted the fruits of it to our
contemplt. Why should we expect he should always continue that
to us w ich he sees we will never use to his service? When the
Israelites would dedicate the gifts of God to the service of Baal,
then he would return, and take away his corn, and his wine, and
make them know b the loss, that those things were his in do-
minion, which the abused, as if they had been sovereign lords of
them (Hos. ii. 8, 9 _ Benefits are entailed u on us no longer than
we obe (Josh. xxlv. 20): “ If you forsake tlie Lord, he will do you
hurt, agar he hath done you good.” While we obey, his bounty
shall shower upon us: and when we revolt, his justice shall con-
sume us. Present mercies abused, are no bulwarks against inde-
pendent judgments. Got hath curses as well as blessings; and they
shall light more heavy when his blessings have been more weighty:
justice is never so severe as when it comes to right goodness, and
revenge its quarrel for the injuries received.
A convenient inquiry may be here, How God’s goodness is con-_
temned or abused?
lst. By a forgetfulness of his benefits. We enjoy the mercies,
and forget the Donor; we take what he gives, and pay not the
tribute he deserves; the “Israelites forgot God their Saviour, which
had done' great things in E t” (Ps. c. 21). We send God’s
mercies where we would havegggd send our sins, into the land of
forgetfulness, and write his beneits where himself will write the
names of the wicked, in the dust, which eve wind defhceth: the
remembrance soon wears out of our minds, and we are so far from
remembering what we had before, that we scarce think of that hand
that gives, the very instant wherein his benefits drop' upon us.
Adam basely forgot his Benefactor, presently after he had been
made capable to remember him, and reflect upon him; the first re-
mark we hear of him, is of his forgetfulness, not a. syllable of his
thankfulness. We forget those souls he hath lodged in us, to ac-
knowledge his favors to our bodies; we forget that image where-
with he beautified us, and that Christ he ex osed as a criminal to
death for our rescue, which is such an act otp goodness as cannot be
expressed by the eloquence of the tongue, or conceived by the
acuteness of the mind. Those things which are so common, that
they cannot be invisible to our eyes, are unregarded by our minds;
our sense prompts our understanding, and our understanding is deaf
to the lain dictates of our sense. We forget his goodness in the
sun, while it warms us, and hisxshowers while they enrich us; in
the corn, while it nourisheth us, and the wine w ile it refresheth
us; “She did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil”
(Hos.   83: she that might have read my hand in every bit of
bread, an every drop of drink, did not consider this. It 18 an in

