oN ,THE eoonsass or con. 817
justice to for get the benefits we receive from man ; it is a crime of
a higher nature to forget those dispensed to us by the hand of God,
who gives us those things that all the world cannot furnish us
with, without him. The inhabitants of Troas will condemn us, who
worship ed mice, in a grateful remembrance of the victory they
had mad)e easy for them, by gnawing their enemies' bow-strings.
They were mindful of the courtesy of animals, though unintended
by those creatures; and we are regardless of the fore-meditated
oounty of God. It is in God’s judgment a brutishness beyond that
of a stupid ox, or a. duller ass; “The ox knows his owner, and the
ass his master’s crib: but Israel doth not know, my people do not
consider” (Isa. i. 3). The ox knows his owner that pastures him,
and the ass his master that feeds him; but man is not so ood as to
bc like to them, but so bad as to be inferior to them: he forgets
Him that sustains him, and spurns at him, instead of valuing him
for the benetits conferred by him. How horrible is it, that God
should lose more by his bounty, than he would do b his parsi-
mony! If we had blessings more sparingly, we shouldy remember
him more gratefully. If he had sent us a bit of bread in a distress
by a miracle, as he did to Elijah by the ravens, it would have
stuck longer in our memories; but the sense of daily favors soonest
wears out of our minds, which are as great miracles as any in their
own nature, and the products of the same power; but the wonder
they should bevet in us, is obscured by their frequency.
2d. The goodnem of God is contemned by an impatient murmur
ing. Our re inings proceed from an inconsideration of God’s free
liberality, and an ungrateful temper of spirit. Most men are guilty
of this. It is implied in the commendation of Job under his pres»
sures (Job i. 22): “In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God
foolishly,” as if it were a character culiar to him, whereby he
verified the eulogy God had given of   before (ver. 8), that there
was “none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man.”
What is implied by the ex ression? but that scarce ap man is to be
found without unjust complaints of God, and charging him under
their crosses with cruelty ; when in the greatest they have much more
reason to bless him for his bounty in the remainder. Good men
have not been innocent. Baruch complains of God for adding
grief to his sorrow, not furnishing him with those “ great things
e expected (Jer. xlv. 3, 4); whereas, he had matter of thankful-
ness in Gocl’s gift of his life as a prey. But his master chargeth
God in a higher strain: “O Lord, thou hast deceived me, and I was
deceived: 1° am in derision dniy” (Jer. xx. 7). when he met with
reproach instead of success in the execution of his function, he
quarrels with God, as if he had a mind to cheat him into a mischief,
when he had more reason to bless him for the honor of being em-
ployed in his service. Because we have not what we expect, we
slight his goodness in what we enjoy. If he cross us in one thing,
he might have made us successless in more: if he take away some
things, he might as well 'have taken away all. The unmerited re-
mainder, though never so little, deserves our acknowledgements
more than the deserved loss can justify our repining. And for that

