818 cnnmocx on 'mm Arramurns.
which is snatched from us, there is more cause to be thankful, tha!
we have enjoyed it so long, than to murmur that we ssess it no
.onger. Adam’s sin implies a repining: he imagined Edd had been
short in his goodness, in not giving him a knowledge he foolishly
conceived himself capable of, and would venture a forfeiture of
what alread had been bountifiilly bestowed upon him. Man
thought God, had envied him, and ever since man studies to be
even with God, and envies him the free dis sal of his own doles:
all murmuring, either in our own cause or oxrs, charges God with
a want of goodness, because there is a want of that which he fool-
ishly thinks would make himself or others happy. :The lan age
of this sin is, that man thinks himself better than God; andglif it
were in his power, would express a more plentiful goodness than
his Maker. As man is a t to think himself “ more ure than God"
gpb iv. 17), so of a kinder nature also than an iugnite goodness.
e Israelites are a wonderflil example of this contempt of Divine
goodness; they had been s ctators of the greatest miracles, and
gartakers of the choicest diiliverance: he had solicited their re-
emlption from captivity; and when words would not do, he came
to b ows for them, musters up his judgments against their enemies,
and, at last, as the Lord of hosts and od of battles, totall defeats
their pursuers, and drowns them and their proud hopes oi? victory
in the Red Sea. Little account was made of all this by the redeemed
ones; “they lightly esteemed the rock of their salvation,” and
launch into greater unworthiness, instead of being thankful for the
breaking their yoke: they are angry with him, that he had done
so much for them: they repented that ever they had complied with
him, for their own deliverance, and had a regret that they had been
brought out of Egypt: they were angry that they were freemen,
and that their chains had been knocked_ off: they were more de-
sirous to return to the oppression of their Egyptian tyrants, than
have God for their overnor and caterer, an be fed with his
manna. “ It was well with us in Egypt: Whlyocame we forth out
of Egylpt ?” which is called a “ despising the rd” (Numb. xi. 18,
20). hey were so far from rejoicing in the expectation of the
future benefits promised them, that they murmured that they had
not enjoyed less; they were so sottish, as to be desirous to put
themselves into the irons whence God had delivered them: they
would seek a remedy in that Egypt, which had been the prison of
their nation, and under the successors of that Pharaoh, who had
been the invader of their liberties; they would snatch Moses from
the place where the Lord, by an extraordinary grovidence,hatl1
established him; the would stone those that min ed them of the
oodness of God to them, and thereupon- of their crime and their
dnt (Numb. xvi. 3, 9-11); they rose against their benefactors,
andy “murmured against God,” that had strengthened the hands of
their deliverers; t ey “des ised the manna” he had sent them,
and “despised the leasant land” he intended them (Ps. cvi. 24):
all which was a high contempt of God and his unparalleled good-
ness and care of them. All murmuring is an accusation of Divine
goodness.

