\
ON 'rms GOODNESS or son. 819
3d. B unbelief and impenitency. What is the reason we come
not to   when he calls us; but some secret im 'nation that he is
of an ill nature, means not as he speaks, but inteiids to mock us, ,in-
stead of welcoming us? When we neglect his call, spurn at his
bowels, slight the riches of his grace; as it is a disparagement to his
wisdom to despise his counsel, so it is to his goodness to slight his
offers, as though you could make better provision for yourselves than
he is able or willing to do. It disgraceth that which is designed to
the praise of the glory of his grace, and renders God cruel to his own
Son, as being an unnecessary shedder of his bloou. As the devil
by his temptation of Adam, envied God the. glory of his cxeatihg
goodness, so unbelief envies God the glory of his redeeming grace:
it is a bidding defiance to him, and c allenging him to muster up
the legions of his judgments, rather than have sent his Son to suffer
for us, or his Spirit to solicit us. Since the sending his Son was the
greatest act of goodness that God could express, the refusal of him
must be the highest reproach of that liberality 'God designed to com-
mend to the world in so rare a gift: the ingratitude in this refusal
must be as high_in the rank of sins, as the person slighted is in the
rank of beings, or rank of `fts. Christ is a gift (Rom. v. 16), the
royalest gift, an unparallelefl gift, springing from inconceivable trea»
sures of goodness (John   16). What is our turning our backs
upon this   but a low olpinion of it? as though the richest jewel
0 heaven were not so va uable as a swinish leasure on earth, and
deserved to be treated at no other rate than if? mere oifals had been
presented to us. The plain language of it is, that there were no gra-
cious intentions for our welfare in this present; and that he is not
as good, in the mission of his Son, as he would induce us to imagine.
Impenitence is also an abuse of this goodness, either by presump-
tion, as if God would entertain rebels that bid defiance against him
with the same respect that he doth his prostrate and weeping su ~
phants; that he will have the same regard to the swine as to tlile
children, and lodge them in the same ha itation ; or it speaks a sus~
picion of God as a deceitful Master, one of a pretended, not a real
oodness, that makes promises to mock men, and invitations to de-
iide them: that he is an implacable tyrant, rather than a good
Father; a rigid, not a kind Being, delightful only to mark our faults,
and overlook our services.
4th. The goodness of God is contemned by a distrust of his provi-
dence. As all trust in him supposeth him good, so all distrust of
him supposeth him evil; either without goodness te exert his power,
or without power to display his goodness. J ob seems to have a s ice
of this in his complaint (Job xxx. 20), “I cry unto thee, and tliou
dost not hear me; I stand up, and thou regardest me not.” It is a
fume of the serpent's venom, first breathe into man, to suspect him
of cruelt 7, severity, regardlessness, even under the daily evidences
of his good disposition: and it is ordinary not to believe him when
he speaks, nor credit him when he acts; to question thegoodncss of
his precepts, and misinterpret the kindness of his providence; as if
they were designed -for the supports of a tyranny, and the deceit of
the miserable. Thus the Israelites thought their miraculous deliver~

