320 cmuuvocx ON mn Arrnmurns.
ance from Egypt, and the placing them in security in the wildernem,
was intended only to poun them up for a slaughter (Numb. xiv.3):
thus they deiiled the lustre of Divine goodness which they hadso
highlv experimented, and placed not that confidence in him which
was due to so frequent a enefactor, and thereby crucified the rich
kindness of God, as Genebrard translates the word “Limited” (Ps.
lxxviii. 41). It is also a. jealousy of Divine goodness, when we seek
to deliver ourselves from olu' straits by unlawful ways, as though
God had not kindness enough to deliver us without committing evil.
What! did God make a world, and all creatlues in it, to think of
them no more, not to concern himself in their affairs? If he be
good, he is diffusive, and delights to communicate himself; and what
subjects should there be for it, but those that seek him, and implom
his assistance? It is an indignity to Divine bounty to have such
mean thoughts of it, that it should be of a nature contrary to that of
his works, which, .the better they are, the more diffusive they ans.
Doth a man distrust that the sun will not shine any more, or the
earth not bring forth its fruit? Doth he distrust the goodness of an
approved medicine for the expelling his distemper? If we distrust
those things, should we not render ourselves ridiculous and sottish?
and if we distrust the Creator of those things, do we not make our-
selves contemners of his goodness? If his caring for us be a princi-
pal argument to move us to cast our care upon him, as it is 1 et. v.
, “Casting your care upon him, for he cares for you ;" then, if we
cast not our care upon im, it is a denial of his gracious care of us,
as if he regarded not what becomes of us. r
5th. \Ve do contemn or abuse his goodness by omissions of duty.
These sometimes spring from injurious conceits of God, which end
in desperate resolutions. It was the crime of a good prophet in his
passion (2 Kings vi. 33): “This evil is of the Lord, why should I
wait on the Lord any longer?" God designs nothing but mischief
to us, and we will seek him no longer. And the complaint of those
in Malachi (Mal. iii. 143 is of the same nature; “Ye have said, It is
vain to serve God; an what rofit is it that we have kept his ordi-
nances?” We have all this while served a hard Master, not a Bene-
faetor, and have not been answered with advantages roportionable
to our services; we have met with a hand too niggardly to dispense
that reward which is due to the lurgeness of our offerings. \ *hen
men will not lift up their eyes to heaven, and solicit nothing but the
eontrivance of their own brain, and the industry of their own heads,
the disown Divine goodness, and approve themselves as their own
god; and the spring of their own prosperity. Those that run notto
God in their necessity, to crave his siilpport, deny either the arm of
his power, or the disposition of his w' , to sustain and deliverthem:
they must have very mean sentiments, or none at all, of this perfec-
tion, or think him either too empty to fill them, or too ehur ish to
relieve them; that he is of a. narrow and contracted temper, and that
they may sooner expect to be made better and happier by atpything
else than by him: and as we contemn his goodness by a to omis-
sion of those duties which respect our own advantage and supply, as
prayer; so we contemn him as the chiefest good, by an omission of

