ON 'mm eooniuzss or con. 321
the dun manner of any act of worship which is designed purely for
the acknowled ment of him. As every omission of the material part
ofa duty is a denial of his sovereignty as commanding it, so every
omission of the manner of it, not erforming it with due esteem and
valuation of him, a surrender of all the powers of our soul to him, is
a denial of him as the most amiable object. But certainly to omit
those addresses to God which his precept enjoins, and his excellency
deserves, speaks this language, that they can be well enough, and do
well enough, without God, and stand in no need of his goodness to
maintain them. The neglect or refusal in a malefactor to supplicate
for his pardon, is a wrong to, and contem t of, the rince’s goodness:
either im lying that he hath not a goodness in his nature worthy
of an address, or that he seorns to be obliged to him for any exercise
of it.
6th. The goodness of God is contemned, or abused, in relying upon
our services to rocure God’s good will to us. As, when we stand
in need either oi) some particular mercy, or special assistance; when
pressures are heavy, and we have little hopes of ease in an ordinary
way; when the devotions in course have not prevailed for whatwe
Want; we engage ourselves b extraordinary vows and romises to
God, hereby to open that goodrness which seems to be loclged up from
us* Sometimes, indeed, vows may proceed from a sole desire to
engage ourselves to God, from a sense of the levity and inconstancy
of our spirits; binding ourselves to God by something more sacred
and inviolable than a common resolution. But many times the
vowing the buildin of a tem le, endowing a hos ital, giving so
much in alms if G65 will free them from a fit of sichness, and spin
out the thread of their lives a little longer (as hath been frequent
among the Romanists), arises from an opinion of laziness and a sel-
fishness in the Divine goodness; that it must be squeezed out by
some solemn promises of returns to him, before it will exercise itself
to take their parts. Po ular vows are often the effects of an igno-
rance of the free and buhbling nature of this perfection of the gener-
ousness and royalty of Divine goodness: as if Grod were of a mean
and mechanic temper, not to part with anything unless he were in
some measure paid for it; and of so bad a nature as not to give pas-
sage to any kindness to his creature without a bribe. It implies also
that he is of an ignorant as well as contracted goodness; that he hath
so little understanding, and so much weakness of judgment, as to be
taken with such trilles, and ceremonial courtships, and little prom-
ises; and meditated only low designs, in imparting his bounty: it
'is just as if a malefactor should s ak to a rince,-Sir, if you will
but bestow a pardon upon me, andpiirevent the death I have merited
for this crime, I will give you this rattle. All vows made with such
a temper of spirit to God, are as injurious and abusive to his good-
ness, as any man will judge such an offer to   to a majestic and
gracious prince; as if it were a trading, not a free and royal good-
ness. -
7th. The goodness of God is abused when we 've up our souls
and affections to those benefits we have from God: when we make
* Amyral. Moral. Tom. IV. p. 291. _
vox.. 11.-21

