822 cnamrocx ON 'ran yrrnranrns.
_those things God’s rivals, which were sent to woo us for him, and
oifer those aifections to the presents themselves, which they were
sent to solicit for the Master. This is done, when either we place
our trust in them, or glue our choicest affections to them. This
charge God brings against Jerusalem, the trusting in her own beauty,
glory, and strength, though it was a comeliness put upon her by
God (Ezek. xvi. 14, 15). When a little sunshine of prosperity breaks
out upon us, we are apt to grasp it with so much eagerness and
closeness, as if we had no other foundation to settle oluselves upon,
no other being that might challenge from us our sole de endence.
And the love of ourselves, and of creatures above Godi is very
natural to us: “Lovers of themselves, and lovers of pleasure
more than of .God” (2 Tim.   2, 4). Selillove is the root, and
the love of pleasures the top branch, that mounts its head high-
est against heaven. It is for the love of the world that the dangers
of the sea are passed over, that men descend into the bowels
of the earth, pass nights without sleep, undertake suits without in-
termission, wade through man inconveniences, venture their- souls,
and coutemn God; 'in those fixings men glory, and foolishly grow
1 roud b them, and think themselves safe and happy in them)
lilow to lbve ourselves above ~ God, is to own ourselves better than
God, and that we transcend him in an amiable goodness; or, if we
love ourselves equal with God, it at least manifests that we think
God no better than ourselves; and think ourselves our own chief
good, and deny anything above us to outstrip us in goodness, where-
y to deserve to be the centre of our aifections and actions, and to
love an other creature above him, is to conclude some defect in
God; that he hath not so much oodness in his own nature as that
creature hath, to com lete our felicity; that God is a slighter thing
than that creature. lit is to account God, what all the things in the
world are,-an imaginary happiness, a goodness of clay; and them
-what God is,-a Supreme Goodness. It is to value the goodness of
a drop above that of the spring, and the goodness of the spark
above that of the sun. As if the bounty of God were of a.
less alloy than the advantages we immediately receive from the hands
of a silly worm. By. how much the better we think a creature to be,
and place our aifecuons chiefl upon it, b so much the more defi-
cient and indigent we concludle God; for god wants so much in our
conception, as the other thing hath goodness above him in our
thoughts. Thus is God lessened below the creature, as if he had a
mixture of evil in him, and were capable of an imperfect oodness.
He that esteems the sun that shines upon him, the clothes that Warm'
him, the food that nourisheth him, or any other benefit above the
Donor, regards them as more comely and useful than God himself ;
and behaves himself asif he were more obliged to them than to God,
who bestowed those advantageous qualities upon them.
8th, The Divine goodness is contemned, in sinnin more freely
upon the account of that goodness, and employing G<§l’s benefits in
a drudger' for our lusts. This is a treachery to his goodness, to
make his benefits serve for an end quite contrary tn 'that for which
|.Cre|soI. Antholog. Part II. p. 29.

