ON mr. coommss or son. 823
he sent them. As if God had been lentiful in his blessings, to hire
them to be more Herce in their rebellions, and fed them to no other
purpose, but that they might more strongl kick against him; this
is the fruit which corrupt nature producetli. Thus the Egyptians,
who had so fertile a country, prove unthankful to the Creator, b
adoring the meanest creatures, and putting the sceptre of the Monarch
of the world into the hands of the sottishest and cruellest beasts.
And the Romans multiply their idols, as God multiplied their vic-
tories. This is also the complaint of God concerning Israel : “ She
did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, and multiplied
her silver and gold, which they prepared for Baal” (Hes. u. 8).
They ungratefully em lo ed the blessings of God in the worship of
an idol against the   ofythe Donor. So in Hos. x. 1 ; “ According
to the multitude of his fruit, he hath increased the altars; according
to the goodness of his land, they have made goodly images.” They
followed their own inventions with the strength of my outward bless-
ings; as their wealth increased, they increased the ornaments of
their images; so that what were before of wood and stone, they ad-
vamed to gold and silver. And the like complaint you may see
Ezek. 16, 17. Thus,
[1.] The benelits of God are abused to pride, when men standing
upon a higher ground of outward ros erity, vaunt it, loftily above
their neig bors; the common faullz) oip those that enjoy a worldly
sunshine, which the apostle observes in his direction to Timothy;
“ Char e them that are rich in this world, that the be not hi h-
minde§’ (1 Tim. vi. 17). It is an ill use of Divine iblessings togbe
filled b them with ride and wind. Also,
[2.] %Vhen men agmuse plenty to ease; because they, have abun-
dance, spend their time in ldleness, and make no other use of Divine
benefits thanto trifle away their time, and be utterly useless to the world.
[3.] When they also abuse peace and other lessing to security;
as they which would not believe the threatenings of judgment, and
the storm coming from a far count , because the Lord was in Sion,
and her King in her; “Is not the rizord in Sion, is not her King in
her” (Jer. viii. 19)? thinking they might continue their progress in
their sin, because they had the temple, the seat of the Divine glory,
Sion, and the romise of an everlasting kingdom to David; abusing
the promise eip God to presumption and security, and turning the
grace of God into wantonness.
[4.] Again, when they abuse the bounty of God to sensuality and
luxury, misemploying t e provisions God gives them, in resolving
to live like beasts, when b a good implrovement of them, they might
attain the life of angels. Thus is the `ght of the sun abused to con-
duct them, and the fruits of the earth abused to enable them to their
rodigious debauchery : as we do, saith one, with the Thames, which
brings us in provision, and we soil it with our rubbish.” The more
God sows his gifts, the more we sow our cockle and darnel. Thus
we make our outward happiness the most unhapp part of our lives, and
by the strength of Divine blessings, exceed all’ aws of reason and
eligion too. How unworthy a carriage is this, to use the express-
' Young, of ABiction, p. 84. °

