324 cmnnocx ON THE Arriusurss.
ions of Divine goodness as occasions of a greater outrage and aiironi
of him; when we stab his honor b those instruments he puts into
our hands to glorif him l as if a fhvorite should turn that sword
into the bowels of his rince, wherewith he knighted him ; and a
servant, enriched by aibrd, should hire by that wealth, murderers
to take away his li el How brutish is it, the more God courts us
with his blessings, the more to spurn at him with our feet; like the
mule that lifts u his heel against the dam, as soon as ever it hath
sucked her! Vipe never beat God out of our hearts, but by his own
gifts; he receives no blows from men, but by those instruments he
gave them to romote their happiness. While man is an enjover,
he makes'Godpa loser, by his own blessin ; inflames his rebellion
by those benefits which should kindle his Idve; and runs from him
by the strength of those favors which should endear the donor to
him : “ Do you thus requite the Lord, O foolish people, and unwise Y"
is the expostulation (Deut. xxxii. 6.) Divine goodness a pears in
the comp aint of the abuse of it, in giving them titles beliow their
crime, and complaining more of their beingx unfaithful to their own
interest, than enemies to his glory : “ foolis and unwise” in negiect-
ing their own ha piness; a c arge below the crime, which deserved
to be “ abominable, ungrateful people to a prodigy.” All this car-
riage towards God, is as if a man should knock the chirur eon on the
head, as soon as he hath set and bound up his dislocated members.
So God compares the ungrateful behavior of the Israelites _against
him: “ Though I have bound and strengthened their arms, yet do
they imagine mischief against me" (Hos. vii. 15): a metaphor taken
from a chirurgeon that applies corroboratin g plasters to a broken limb.
9th, We contemn the goodness of God, in ascribing our benefits
to other causes than Divine oodness. Thus Israel ascribed her feli-
city, plenty, and success, to her idols, as “rewards which her lovers
had given her” (Hos. ii. 5, 12). And this charge Daniel brought
home u on Belshazzar: “Thou hast praised the gods of silver, and
gold, and brass, and iron ; and the God in whose hand is thy breath,
and whose are all thy ways, hast thou not glorified” (Dan. v. 23).
The God who hath given success to the arms of thy ancestors, and
conveyed by their hands so large a dominion to thee, thou hast not
honored in the same rank with the sordidest off thy idols. It is the
same case, when we own him not as the author of any success in our
affairs, but by an overweaning conceit of our own sagacity, applaud
and admire ourselves, and overlook the hand that conducted us, and
brought our endeavors to a good issue. We eclipse the glor of Di-
vine goodness, by setting the crown that is due to it upon tlive head
of our own industry; a sacrilege worse than Belshazzar’s drinkin
of wine with his lords and concubines in the sacred vessels pilfered
from the temple ; as in that place of Daniel. This was the proud vaunt
of the Assyrian conqueror, for which God threatens to punish the
fruit of his stout heart: “By the strength of my hand, I have done it,
and b my wisdom; for I am prudent ;” and, “ I have removed the
bouncii of the people, and have robbed their treasures ;” and, “I have
put down the inhabitants like a valiant man” (Isa. x. 12--14). Not a
word of Divine goodness and assistance in all this, but applauding

