ON THE Goommss or Gon. 325
his own courage and conduct. This is a robbing of God, to set up
ourselves, and making Divine goodness a footstool, to ascend into
his throne. And as it is unjust, so it is ridiculous, to ascribe to our-
selves, or instruments, the chief honor of any work; as ridiculous
as if a soldier, after a, victory, should erect an altar to the honor of
his sword; or an artificer offer sacrifices to the tools whereby he com-
pleted some excellent and useful invention: a practice that eve
rational man would disdain, where he should see it. It is a. discarili
ing any thoughts of the goodness of God, when we imagine, that
we chiefly owe anything in this world to our own industry or wit,
to friends or means, as though Divine goodness did not open its hand
to interest itself in our affairs, support our ability, direct our coun-
sels, and mingle itself with anything we do. God is the principal
author of ‘any advantage that accrues to us, of any wise resolution
we fix upon, or any proper way we take to compass it; no man can
be wise in opposition to God, act wisely, or we l without him; his
goodness inspires men with generous and magnificent counsels, and
fumisheth them with fit and proportionable means; when he with-
draws his hand, men’s heads grow foolish, and their hands feeble;
folly and weakness drop upon them, as darkness upon the world
upon the removal of the sun ;, it is an abuse of Divine goodness not
to o\vn it, but erect an idol in its lace. Ezra was of another mind
when he ascribed to the good hang of God the “providing ministers
for the temple,” and not to his own care and diligence (chap. viii. 18);
and Nehemiah, the “success he had with the king” in the behalf of
his nation, and not solely to his favor with the prince, or the arts he
used to please him (chap.   8).
2. The second information is this: If God be so good, it is a cer-
tain argument that man is fallen from his original state. It is the
complaint of man, sometimes, that other creatures have more of
cart ly happiness than men have; live freer from cares and trouble,
and are not racked with that solicitousness and anxiety as man is:
have not such distem ers to embitter their lives. It is a good ground
for man to look into ffimself; and consider whether he hath not, some
ways or other, disobliged God more than other creatures can possi»
bly do. \Ve often find that the creatures men have need of in this
state, do not answer the expectation of man: “Cursed he the ground
forthy sake" (Gen. iii. 17). A fruitful land is made barren ; thorns
and tliistles triumph upon the face of the earth, instead of good fruit
Is it likely that that goodness, which is as infinite as his power, and
knows no more limits than his Almightiness, should imprint so many
scars upon the world, if he had not been heinously provoked by some
miscarriage of his creature? Infinite Goodness could never move
Infinite Justice to inflict punishment upon creatures, if they had not
highly merited it; we cannot think that any creature was lemished
with a. rinciple of disturbance, as it came first out of the hand of
God. X11 things were certainly settled in a due order and depend-
ence upon one another; nothing could be ungrateful and unuseful
to man by the original law of their creation; if there had, it had not
been goodness, but evil and baseness, that had created the world.
When we see, therefore, the course of nature overturned, the order

