326 cnaaivocx ON 'mn Arrnmnras.
Divine oodness had placed, disturbed; and the creatures pronoun
ced good and useful to man, employed as instruments of vengeance
igainst him; we must conclude some horrible blot upon human na-
ture, and ver odious to a. God of infinite goodness; and that this
blot was dasliyed upon man b himself, and his own fault; for it is
repugnant to the infinite goodiness of God to put into the creature a
sinning nature, to hurry him into sin, and then punish him for that
which he had impressed upon him. The goodness of God inclines
him to love goodness wherever he finds it; and not to punish any
that have not deserved it by their own crimes. The curse we there-
fore see the creatures groan under, the disorders in nature, the frus»
trating the ex ectations of man in the fruits of the earth and plenti-
ful harvests, gre trouble he is continually exposed to in the world,
which tedders down his s irit from more generous employments,
shows that man is not what he was when Divine goodnes first
erected him; but hath admitted into his nature something more un-
comely in the eye of God.; and so heinous, that it puts his oodne§
sometimes to a stand, and makes him lay aside the blessings his hand
was filled with, to take up the a.rms of veigeance, wherewith to [ight
against the world. Divine goodness wo d have secured his crea-
tures from any such invasions, and never used those things against
man, which he designed in the first frame for man’s service, were
there not some detestable disorder risen in the nature of man which
makes God withhold his liberality and change the dispensation of
his numerous benefits into legions of judgments. The consideration
of the Divine goodness, which is a notion that man naturally con-
cludes to be inseparable from the Deity, would, to an unbiwd rea-
son, verify the history of those punishments settled upon man in the
third chapter of Genesis, and make the whole seem more probable
to reason at the first relation. This instruction naturally Hows from
the doctrine of Divine goodness: if God be so good, it is a certain
argument that man is fallen from his original state.
_ 3. The third information is this: If God be infinitely good, there
can be no just com laintiigainst God, if men be punished for abus-
ing his goodness. Elan h nothing, nay, it was impossible he could
have anything, from Infinite Goodness to disoblige him, but to en-
gage him. God never did, nay, never could, draw his sword against
man, till man had slighted him and atfronted him by the strength
of his own bounty. It is by this God doth justif his severest pro-
ceedings against men, and very seldom charges them with any else
as the inatter of their provocations (Hos.   9): “Therefore will I
return, and take away my corn in the time thereof; and my wine in
the season thereof, and will recover my wool and my flax.” And
in Ezek. xvi., after he had drawn out a. bill of complaint against
them, and inserted only the abuse of his benefits, as a `ustiiication
of what he intended to do; he concludes (ver. 27), “Be'l1old, there-
fore, I have stretched out my hand over thee, and diminished thy
ordinary food, and delivered thee unto the will of them that hate
thee.” When men suffer, they suffer justly; they were not con-
strained by any violence, or forced by an necessity, nor rovoked
by any-illusage, to t\u‘n head against Geri but broke the ‘Ibands of

