ON THE GOODNESS or eon. 827
the strongest obligations and most tender allurements. What man
what devil, can `ustly blame God for punishing them, after they had
been so intoleraimly bold, as to fly in the face of that goodness that
had obliged them, by giving them beings of a higher elevation than
to inferior creatures, and furnishin them with sufficient strength to
continue in their first habitation? §Ian seems to have less reason to
accuse God of rigor than devils; since, after his unreasonable re~
volt, a more express goodness than that which created him hath soli-
cit/ed him to repentance, courted him by melting promises and ex-
postulations, ad ed undeniable arguments of bounty, and drawn out
the choicest treasures of heaven, in the itt of his Son, to prevail
over men’s erversity. And yet man, ag/er he might arrive to the
height and hiappiness of an angel, will be fond of continuing in the
mcanness and misery of a devil; and more strongl link himself to
the society of the damned s irits, wherein, b his first rebellion, he
had incor orated himself Who can blame god for vindicating his
own goodiness from such desperate contempts, and the extreme in-
gratitude of man? If God be good, it is our happiness to adhere to
im; if we depart from him, we de art from goodness; and if evil
happen to us, we cannot blame Godz but ourselves, for our depar-
ture.° Why are men happy? because they cleave to God. Why
are men miserable? because they recede from God. It is then our
own fault that we are miserable; God cannot be charged with any
injustice if we be miserable, since his goodness gave'meaus to pre-
vent it, and afterwards added means to recover us from it, but all
despised by us. The doctrine of Divine goodness justifies every
stone laid in the foundation of hell, and every spark in that burn-
ing furnace, since it is for the abuse of infinite goodness that it was
kindled.
4. The fourth information: Here is a certain argument, both for
God’s fitness to overn the world, and his actual government of it.
(1.) This renders him fit for the government of the world, and
gives him a full title to it. This perfection doth the Psalmist cele-
rate throughout the 107th Psalm, where he declares God’s works of
providence (ver. 8, 15, 21, 32). Power without goodness would de-
ace, instead of preserving; ruin is the fruit of rigor without kind-
ness; but God, because of his infinite and immutable goodness,
cannot do anything unworthy of himself, and uncomely in itself, or
destructive to any moral goodness in the creature. It is im ssiblc
he should do anything that is base, or act anything but for thi; best,
because he is essentially and naturally, an , therefore, necessarily
good. As a good tree cannot bring forth bad fruit, so a good God
cannot produce evil acts, no more than a pure beam of the sun can
engender so much as a mite of darkness, or infinite heat roduoe any
particle of cold. As God is so much light, that he canibe no dark-
ness, so he is so much good, that he can have no evil; and because
there is no evil in him, nothing sim ly evil can be produced by him.
Since he_ is good by nature, all evilp is against his nature, and God
can do nothin against his nature; it would be a part of impotence
in him to will that which is evil; and, therefore, the misery man
° Petav. Theolog. Dogmat. Vol. I. p. 407.

