828 CHARNOCK ON THE Arrnrnmns.
feels, as well as the sin whereby he deserves that misery, are said tc
be from himself (Hos. xiii. 93; “O Israel, thou hast destroyed thy-
self !" And though God sen judgments upon the world, we have
shown these to be intended for the support and vindication of' his
goodn ess. And Hezekiah judged no otherwise, when, after the
threatening of the devastation of his house, the plundering his treas-
ures, and eaptivit of his posterity, he replies, “ Good is the word of
the Lord, which thou hast spoken” (Isa. xxxix. 8). God cannot act
anything that is base and cruel, because his goodness is as infinite as
his power, and his power acts nothin but what his wisdom directs,
and his goodness moves him to. Wis§om is the head in government,
omniscience the eye, power the arm, and goodness the heart and
spirit in them, that animates all.
(2.) As goodness renders Him fit to govern the world, so God doth
actually govern _the world. Can we understand this perfection aright,
and yet imagine that he is of so morose a disposition as to ne 'lect
the care of his creatures? that his excellency, which was displiyed
in framing the world, should withdraw and wrap up itself in his own
bosom, without looking out, and darting itself out in the disposal
of them? Can that which moved him first to erect a world, suifer
him to be unmindful of his own work? Would he design first to
display it in creation, and afterwards obscure the honor of it? That
cannot be entitled an infinite permanent goodness, which should be
so indifferent as to let the creatures tumble together as they please,
without any order, after he had moulded them in his hand. If ood-
ness be diffusive and communicative of itself, can it consist witi the
nature of it, to extend itself to the giving the crea.tures being, and
then withdraw and contract itself, not caring what becomes of them ?
It is the nature of goodness, after it hath communicated itself, to en-
large its channels; that fountain that springs up in alittle hollow
part of the earth, doth in a short progress increase its streams, and
widen the passages through which it runs; it would be a blemish to
Divine goodness, if it di desert what it made, and leave things t.o
wild confusions, which would be, if a good hand did not manage
them, and a good mind preside over them. This is the lesson in-
tended to us by all his judgments (Dan. iv. 17), “That the living
may know that the Most High rules in the kingdoms of men.” It
he doth not actually govern the world, he must have devolved it
somewhere, either to men or angels; not to men, who naturally want
a goodness and wisdom to overn themselves, much more to govern
others exactly. And, besides the misinterpretations of actions, they
are liable to the want of patience, to bear with the provocations of
the world; since some of the best at one time in the world, and, in the
greatest example of meekness and sweetness, would have kindled a
lire in heaven to have consumed the Samaritans, for no other aiihont
than a non-entertainment of their Master and themselves (Luke ix.
54). Nor hath he committed the disposal of things to angels, either
good or bad; though he useth them as instruments in his ovem~
ment, yet they are not the principal pilots to steer the work? Bad
angels certainly are not; they would make continual ravages, med-
itate ruin, never defeat their own counsels, which they manage by the
A

