ON 'run Goonmiss or son. 829
Wicked as the instruments in the world, nor fill their spirits with dis-
quiet and restlessness when they are engaged in some ruinous design,
as often is experienced: nor hath he committed it to the ood angels,
who, for aught we know, are not more numerous than the evil ones
are; but besides, we can scarcely think their finite nature capable of
so much goodness, as to bear the innumerable debaucheries, villanies,
blasphemies, vented in one year, one week, one day, one hour,
throughout the world; their zeal for their Creator might well be
supposed to move them to testify their affection to him in a constant
and speed righting of his injured honor upon the heads of the of-
fenders. ll'he evil angels have too much cruelt ', and would have
no care of justice, but take pleasiue in the bloody of the most inno-
cent., as well as the most criminal; and the good an els have too
little tenderness to suffer so many crimes: since the Wogd, therefore,
continues without those floods of judgments, which it daily merits;
since, notwithstanding all the provocations, the order of' it is pre~
served; it is a testimony that an Infinite Goodness holds the helm in
his hands; and spreads its warm wings over it.
5. The fifth information is this: Hence we may infer the ground
of all religion; it is this' rfection of goodness. As the goodness
of God is the lustre of aliw his attributes, so it is the foundation and
link of all true religious worship: the natural religion of the hea-
thens was introduced by the consideration of Divine goodness, in
the being he had bestowed upon them, and the provisions that were
made for them. Divine bounty was the motive to erect altars, and
present sacrifices, though they mistook the object of their worship,
and offered the dues of the Creator to the instruments whereby he
conve 'ed his benefits to them: and you find, that the religion insti-
tuted by him among the Jews, was enforced upon them by the con-
sideration of their miraculous deliverance from Egypt, the preserva-
tion of them in the wilderness, and the enfeoiiing them in a land
flowing with milk and honey. Every act of bounty and success the
heathens received, moved them to appoint new feasts, and repeat
their adorations of those deities they thought the authors and promo-
ters of their victories and welfare. The devil did not mistake the
common sentiment of the world in Divine service, when he alleged
to God, that “Job did not fear him for nought," i. e. worship him for
nothing (Job i.   All acts of devotion take their rise from God’s
liberality, either rom what they have or from what they hope; praise
speaks the possession, and prayer the expectation, of some benefit
from his hand: though some of the heat ens made fear to be the
prime cause of the acknowledgment and worshi of a deity, yet
surely something else besides and beyond this established so great a
thing as religion in the world; an ingenuous religion could never
have been born into the world without a notion of goodness, and
would have gaped its last as soon as this notion should have expired
in the minds of men. What encouragement can fear of power give,
without sense of goodness? just as much as thunder hath, to invite
a man to the place where it is like to fall, and crush him. The na
ture of “fear is to drive from, and the nature of “ goodness" to al~
lure to, the object: the Divine thunders, prodigies, and other armim

