330 cnnmocx ON rim Arrarsurss.
of his ,astice in the world, which are the marks of his power, could
conch de in nothing but a slavish worship: fear alone would have
made men blaspheme the Deity; instead of servin him, they would
have fretted against him; they might have offered him a trembling
worship; but they could never have, in their minds, thought him
worthy of an adoration ; they would rather have secretly complained
of him, and cursed him in their heart, than inwarly have admired
him : the issue would have been the same, which Job’s wife advised
him to, when God withdrew his protection from his goods and body:
“Curse God, and die” (Job ii. 9). It is certainly the common senti-
ment of men, that he that acts cruelly and tyrannically, is not worthy
of an integrit to be retained towards him in the hearts of his subjects;
but Job fortitiies himself against this temptation from his bosom friend,
by the consideration of the good he had received from God, which
did more deserve a worship from him than the present evil had reason
to discourage it. Alas! what is only feared, is hated, not adored.
Would any seek to an irreconcileable enemy? would any person ati
fectionately list himself in the service of a man void of all good disf
position? would any distressed person put up a petition to that
prince, who never gave any experiment of' the sweetness of his na-
ture, but alwa s satiated himsel with the blood of the meanest crim-
inals? All afiyection to service is rooted up when hopes of receiving
~good are extinguished: there could not be a spark of that in the
world, which is roperly called religion, Without a notion of goodnem;
the existence of God is the first pillar, and the goodness of God in
rewarding the next, upon which coming to him (which includes all
acts of devotion) is established (Heb. xi. 6); “He that comes unto
God, must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that
diligently seek him :” if either of those pillars be not thought to
stand firm, all religion falls to the ground. It is this, as the most
agreeable motive, that the apostle James uses, to enco e men’s
a proach to God, because “ he (gives liberally, and uPb €th not"
(elhmes i. 5). A man of a kill heart and a bountiful hand shall
have his gate thronged with suppliants, who sometimes would be
willing to lay down their lives; “for a good man one would even
dare to diez” when one of a niggardly or tyrannical temper shall be
destitute of all free and affectionate applications. What eyes would
be lifted up to heaven? what hands stretched out, if there were not
a knowledge of goodness there to enliven their hopes of speeding in
their petitions? Therefore Christ orders our prayers to be directed
to God as a Father, which is a title of tenderness, as well as a “ Father
in heaven,” a mark of his greatness; the one to support our confi-
dence, as well as the other to preserve our distance. God could not
be ingenuously adored and acknowledged, if he were not liberal as
well as powerful; the goodness of Go is the foundation of all in-
genuous religion, devotion and worship. '
6. The sixth instruction : The goodness of God renders God
amiable. His goodness renders him beautiful and his beauty ren
ders tim lovely; both are linked together (Zech. lx. lr); “ How
great is his goodness! and how great is his beauty!" T is is the
most powerful attractive, and masters the affections of the soul: it

