- ON 'ms Gopmrnss or con.-~~ 881
is goodness only supposed., or real, that is thought worthy to demerit
our affections to anything. If there be not a reality of this, or at
least an opinion an estimation of it in an object, it would want a
force and vigor to -allure our will. This perfection of 'God is the
loadstone to draw us, and the centre for our spirits to rest in. l
1. This renders God amiable to himself His goodness is his
“ Godhead” (Rom. i. 20): by his Godhead is meant his goodness; if
he loves his Godhead for itself; he loves his goodness for itself; he
would not be good, if he did not love himself; and if there were
anythin more excellent, and had a greater goodness than himself
he woul§ not be good if he did not love that greater goodness above
himself; for not only a hatred of goodness is evil, but an indifferent
or cold affection to goodness hath a tincture of evil in it. If God
were not ood, and yet shouldlove himself in the highest manner,
ne wouldie the greatest evil, and do the greatest evil in that act;
for he would set his love u on that which is not the proper object
of such an affection, but are object of aversion: his own infinite
excellency, and oodness of his natme, renders him lovely and de-
lightful to himself; without this he could not love himself in a com~
mendable and worthy wa , and becoming the purity of a Deity;
and he cannot but love   for this; for, as creatures, by not
loving him as the su reme good, deny him to be the choicest ood,
so God would deny himself, and his own goodness, if he did not
love himself, and that for his oodness. But the a ostle tells us, that
“God cannot deny himself ” %2 Tim. ii. 13). Selflbve, upon this ao-
count, is the only prerogative of God, because there is not anything
better than himsel that can la any just claim to his affections: he
only ought to love himself, and’ it would be an injustice in him to
himself] if he did not. He only can love himself for this: an influ-
ite goodness ought to be infinitely loved, but he onlty being infinite,
can onl love himself according to the due merit o his own good-
ness. §e cannot be so amiable to any man, to any angel, to the
highest seraphim, as he is to himself; because he is only caplable in
regard of his infinite wisdom, to know the iniiniteness of is own
goodness. And no creatine can love him as he ought to be loved,
unless it had the same infinite capacity of understanding to know
him, and of affection to embrace him. This first renders God
amiable to himself ,
2. It ought therefore to render-him amiable' to us. What renders
him lovely to his own eye, 'ought to render him so to ours; and
since, by the shortness of our understandings, we cannot love him
as he merits, yet we should be induced by the measures . of his
bounty, to love him as we can. If this do not present him lovely to
us, we own him rather a devil than a God: if his goodness moved
him to frame creatures, his goodness moved him also to frame crea-
tures for himself and his own glory. ,It is a mighty wrong to him
not to look with a delightful eye upon the marks of it, and return
an affection to G-od in some measure suitable to his liberality to us;
we are descended as low as brutes, if we understand him not to be
the perfect good; and we are descended as low as devils, if our
affections are not attracted by it.
\

