332 cnsnrvocx ON 'ms A'1'r1z1BUrEs.
(L) If God were not infinitely good, he could not be the object of
supreme love. If he were linitely good, there might be other things
gas good as God, and then God in justice could not challenge our
choicest affections to him above aniything else: it would be a de-
fect of goodness in him to deman it, because he would despoil
that which were equally good with him, of its due and right to our
affections, which it II11 ht claim from us upon the account of its
goodness: God wouldie unjust to challenge more than was due
to him; for he would claim that chiefly to himself which another
had a lawful share in. Nothing can be supremely loved that hath
not a triumphant excellency above all other things; where is an
equality of goodness, neither can justly challenge a supremacy, but
only an equality of affection.
(2.) This attribute of goodness renders him more lovely than
any other attribute. He never requires our adoration of im so
much as the strongest or wisest, but as the best of beings: he
uses this chiefl to constrain and allure us. Why would he be
feared or worsliipped, but because “ there is forgiveness with him”
(Ps. cxxx. 4)? it is for his goodness’ sake that he is sued to bg
his eople in distress (Ps. xxv. 7), “For th 1 goodness’ sake,
Lordl” Men may be admired because of their linowledge, but they
are affected because of their goodness: the will, in all the variety
of objects it pursues, centres in this one thing of good as the
term of its appetite. All things are beloved by men, because they
have been bettered by them. Severity can never conquer enmity,
and kindle love: were there nothing but wrath in the Deity, it
would make him be feared, but render him odious, and that to
an innocent nature. As the sppuse speaks'of Christ (Cant. v. 10,
11), so we may of God: thoug she commends him for his head,
the excellency of his wisdom; his e es, the extent of his omnis-
cience; his hands, the greatness of his ower; and his legs, the
swiftness of his motions and ways to and) for his people; yet the
“sweetness of his mouth,” in his gracious words and promises,
closes all, and is followed with nothing but an exclamation, that
“he is altogether lovely” (ver. 162. His mouth, in pronoimcing
ardon of sin, and _justiiication o the person, resents him most
l)ovely.- His power to ,do good is admirable, hut his -will to do
ood is amiable: this puts a gloss upon all his other attributes.
§‘hough he had knowledge to understand the depth of our neces
sities, and (power to pievent them, or rescue us from them, yet
his knowle ge would fruitles, and his wer useless, if he
were of a rigid nature, and not touched withoany sentiments of
kindness.
(3.) This goodness therefore lays a strong obligation upon us.
It is true he is lovely in regard of his absolute. goodness, or the
goodness of his nature, but we should hardly be persuaded to re-
turn him an affection without his relative goodness, his benefits
to his creatures; we are obliged by both to love him.
[1.] By his absolute goo ness, or the goodness of his nature.
Suppose a creature had drawn its original from something else
wherein God had no influx, and had never received the least

