ON 'rss Goonm-:ss or con. 333
mite of a benefit from him, but from some other hand, yet the
infinite exwllency and oodness of his nature would merit t.he
love of that creature, and it would act sordidly and disingenuous-
ly if it did not discover a mighty respect for God: for what in-
genuity could there be in a rational creature, that were dpossessed
with no esteem for any nature filled with unbounded goo ness and
excellency, though he had never been obliged to him for any favor?
That man is accounted odious, and justly despicable by man, that
reproaches and disesteems, nay, that doth not value a erson of a
high virtue in himself, and an universal goodness and) charity to
others, though himself never stood in need of his charity, and never
had any benefit conveyed from his hands, nor ever saw his face, or
had any commerce with him: a value of such a person is but a just
due to the natiual claim of virtue. And, indeed, the first object of` love
is God in the excellency of his own nature, as the first object of` love
in marriage is the person; the portion is a thing consequent upon
it. To love God oul for his benefits, is to love ourselves first, and
him secondarily : to love God for his own goodness and excellency,
is a true love of' God; a love of` him for himselff That flaminfr fire
in his own breast, though we have not a spark of it, hath a riglit to
kindle one in ours to him. '
[2.] By his relative goodness, or that of his benefits. Though the
excellency of` his own nature, wherein there is a combination of` good-
ness, must needs ravish an apprehensive mind; yet a reflection upon
his imparted kindness, both in the beings we have from him, and
the support we have by him, must enhance his estimation. \Vhen
the excellency of his nature, and the expressions of` his bounty are
in conjunction, the excellency of his own nature renders him estima-
ble in a way of justice, and the greatness of his benefits renders him
valuable in a way of gratitude: the -first ravisheth, and the other
allures and melts: he hath enough in his nature to attract, and suffi-
cient in his bounty to engage our affections. The excellency of his
nature is strong enough of` itself to blow up our affections to him,
were there not a malignitv in our hearts that represents him under
the notion of an enemy; therefore in regard of` our corrupt state, the
consideration of Divine lar esses comes in for a share int e elevation
of our affections. For, indeed, it is a very hard thing for a man to
love another, though never so well qualified, and of` an eminent vir-
tue, while he believes him to be his enemy, and one that will severely
handle him, though he hath before received many good turns from
him; the virtue, valor, and courtesy of` a prince, will hardly make
him affected by those against whom he is in arms, and that are daily
ilfered by his soldiers, unless they have hopes of a reparation from
him, and future security from injuries. Christ, in the repetition of
the command to “love God with all our mind, with all our heart,
and with all our soul,” i. e. with such an ardency above all things
which glitter in our eye, or can be created by him, considers him as
“our God” (Matt. xxii. 37). And the Psalmist considers him as one
that had kindly employed his power for him, in the eruption of` his
love (Ps. xviii. 1% “ I will love thee, O Lord, my strength ;” and so
in Ps. cxvi. 1, “ love the Lord, because he hath heard the voice

