I
834 crmanocx ON mm Arrnmuras
of my supplications.”» An esteem of the benefactor is inseparable
from gratitude for the received benefits: and should not then the
unparalleled kindness of God advance him in om' thoughts, much
more than slighter courtesies do a created benefactor in ours? It is
an obligation on every man’s nature to answer bounty with gratitude,
and goodness with love. Hence you never knew any! man, nor can
the records of eternity produce any man, or devil, t at ever hated
any person, or anything as good m_1tsclf: it is a thing absolutely
repu nant to the nature of any rational creature. The devils hate
not god because he is good, but because he is not so good to them
as they would have him; because he will not unlock their chains, turn
them into liberty, and restore them to happiness; i. e. because he will
not desert the rights of abused goodness. But how should we send
up flames of love to that God, since we are under his direct beams,
and enjoy such plentiful influences! If the sun is comely in itself
yet it is more amiable to us, by the light we see, and the warmth we
feel.
lst. The greatness of his beneuts have reason to aifect us with a
love to him. The impress he made upon our souls when he extracted
us from the darkness of nothing; the comeliness he hath ut upon us
by his own breath; the care he took of our recovery, wlien we had
lost ourselves; the expense he was at for our regaining our defaced
beauty; the gift he made of his Son; the affectionate calls we have
heard to over-master our corrupt alppetites, move us to repentance,
and make us disaffect our belove misery; the loud sound of his
word in our ears, and the more inward knockings of his Spirit in
our heart; the oifering us the gift of himself, and the everlasting
happiness he courts us to, besides those common favors we enjoy in
the world, which are all the streams of his rich bounty: the voice
of all is loud enou h to solicit our love, and the merit of all ought
to b strong enough to engage our love: “ there is none like the God
of J gshurun, who rides upon the heaven in thy help, and in his ex-
cellenc on the sky” (Deut. Xxxiii. 26).
2d. The unmeritedness of them doth enhance this. It is but reason
to love him who hath loved us first (1 John iv. 19). Hath he placed
his delight upon any when they were nothing, and after they were
sinful; and s all he set his delight upon such vile persons, and shall
not we set our love upon so excellent an object as himself? How
base are we, if his goodness doth not constrain us to affect him who
hath been so Hee in his favor to us, who have merited the quite con-
trary at his hands? If “ his tender mercies are over all his works”
(Ps. cxlv. 9), he ought for it to be esteemed by all his works that are
capable of a rational estimation.
3d. Goodness in creatures makes them estimable, much more
should the goodness of God render him lovely to us. If we love a
little spark of goodness in this or that creature, if a drop be so fit-
licious to us, shall not the immense Sun of goodness, the ever-flowing
Fountain of all, be much more delightful? The original excelleng
alwa s outstri s what is derived from it; if so mean and contract
an olitject as alliittle creature ,deserves estimation for a little mite com-
municated to it, so great and extended a goodness as is in the Cream!

