I,
on rm: eoomrss or con. 835
much more merits it at our hands: he is good uftei the infinite
methods of a Deity: a weak resemblance is lovely; much more ami-
able, then, must be the incomprehensible original of that beauty.
We love creatures for what we think to be ood in them, though it
may be hurtful; and shall we not love Gogi who is a real and un-
blemished goodness, and from whose hand are po1u°e<l out all those
blessings that are conveyed to us by second causes? The object
that delights us, the capacity we have to delight in it, are both from
him; our love, therefore, to him should transcend the affection we
bear to any instruments he moves for our welfare. “Among the
gods. there is none like thee, O Lord, neither are there any works
like unto thy works” (Ps. lxxxvi. 8): among the pleasantest crea-
tures there is none like the Creator, nor any gloodness like unto his
goodness. Shall we love the food that nouris eth us, and the med-
icine that cures us, and the silver whereby we fumish ourselves with
useful commodities? Shall we love a horse, or dog, for the benents
we°have by them? and shall not the spring of all those draw our
souls after it, and. make us aspire to the honor of loving and em-
bracing Him who hath stored every creatine with that which may
pleasure us? But, instead of endeavoring to arallel our affection
with his kindness, we endeavor to make our dihingenuity as exten-
sive and towering as his Divine goodness. _
4th. This is the true end of the manifestation of his goodness, that
he might appear amiable, and have a return of affection. Did God
display his goodness only to be thought of, or to be loved? It is
the want of such a return, that he hath usually aggravated, from the
benefits he hath bestowed upon men. Every thought of him should
be attended with xx motion suitable to the excellency of his nature
and works. Can we think those nobler s irits, the angels, look upon
themselves, or those frames of things in the heavens and earth, with-
out starting somf. practical affection to him for them? Their knowl-
edge of his excellency and works cannot be a lazy contemplation:
it is impossible their wills and affections should be a thousand miles
distant from their understandings in their operations. It is not the
least art of his condescending goodness to court in such methods
the agections of us worms, and manifest his desire to be beloved by
us. Let us give him, then, that affection he deserves, as well as de-
mands, and which cannot be withheld from him without horrible
saerile e. There is nothing worthy of love besides him; let no fire
oe kindled in our hearts, but what may ascend directly to him.
7. The seventh instruction is this: This renders God a fit object
of trust and confidence. Since none is ood but God, none can be
a full and satisfactory ground or object ofgconiidence but God: as all
things derive their beings, so they derive their helpfulness to us from
God; they are not, therefore, the principal objects of trust, but that
goodness alone that renders them fit instruments of our support;
they can no more challenge from us a stable confidence, than they
can a supreme affection. It is by this the Psalmist allurcs men to a
trust in him; “Taste and see how good the Lord isz” what is the
conse uenee? “Blessed is the man that trusts in thee” (Ps. xxxiv.
8).. 'lhxe voice of Divine goodness sounds nothing more intelligibly,

