\
836 CHARNOCK ON THE Armmufrss.
and a taste of it produceth nothing more eifectualiy, than this. As
the vials of his justice are to make us fear hirn, so the streams of his
goodness are to make us rely on him: as his patience is designed to
roach our repentance, so his goodness is most proper to strengthen
om' assurance in him: ,that goodness which surmounted so manv
difhculties, and conquered so many motions that mi ht be madye
against any repeated exercise of it, after it had been abused by the
Hrst rebellion of man; that goodness that after so much contempt of
it, appeared in such a. majestic tenderness, and threw aside those im-
pediments which men had cast in the way of Divine inclinations:
this goodness is the foundation of all reliance upon God. Who is
better than God? and, therefore, who more to be trusted than God ?
As his power cannot act anything weakly, so his goodness cannot
act anything unbecomingly, and unworthy of his in’dnite majesty.
And here consider,
(1.) Goodness is the first motive of trust. Nothing but this could
be the encouragement to man, had he stood in a state of innoceifce,
to present himself before God; the ma'esty of God would have con-
strained him to keep his due distance, dnt the goodness of God could
only hearten his confidence: it is nothing else now that can preserve
the same temper in us in our la sed condition. To regard him only
as the Judge of our crimes, will) drive us from him; but only the
regard of him as the Donor of our blessings, will allure us to him.
The principal foundation of faith is not the word of God, but God
himself, and God as considered in this perfection. As the goodness
of God in his invitations and providential blessings “leads us to ne-
pentence” (Rom.,ii. 4), so, by the same reason, the goodness of God
y his (promises loads us to reliance. 'If God be not first believed to
be goo , he would not be believed at all in anything that he speaks
or swears: if you were not satisfied in the goodness of a man,
though he should swear a. thousand times, you would value neither
his word nor oath as any security. Many times, where we are cer-
tain of the goodness of a. man, We are willing to trust him without
his promise. This Divine perfection `ves credit to the Divine pro-
mises; they of themselves would notlie a suihcient ground of trust,
Without an apprehension of his truth; nor' would his truth be very
comfortable without. a bclief of his good will, whereb We are as-
sured that what lic prrnniscs to _give, he gives liberally, free, and
without regret. The truth of the promiser makes the promise cred'
ible, but the goodness of the proiniser makes it cheerfully relied on.
In Ps. lxxiii. (Asaplfs pcnitential psalm for his distrust of God,
he begins the first verse with an assertion of this attribute (ver. 1),
“Truly God is good to Israel ;” and ends with this fruit of it (ver.
28), “I will put my trust in the Lord,God.” It is a mighty ill na-
ture that receives not with assurance the dictates of Inlinite Good-
ness, (that cannot deceive or frustrate the ho s we conceive of him)
that is inconceivably more abundant in the   and inclinations
of the promiser, than expressible in the words of his promise, “ All
true faith works by love” (Gal. v. 6), and, therefore, necessarily i_n~
cludes a particular eyeing of this excellency in -the Divine nature,
which renders him amiable, and is the motive and encouragement of

