ON ras coonrrass or son. 337
a love to him. His power indeed is a foundation of trust, but his
goodness is the principal motive of it. His power without good-will
would be dangerous, and could not allure affection; and his good-
will withoutupower would be useless; and though it might merit a
love, yet co d not create a conidence; both in conjunction are
strong grounds of hope, especially since his goodness is of the same
infinity with his wisdom and power; and that he can be no more
wantin in the eifusions of this upon them that seek him, than in
his wisdom to contrive, or his ower to effect, his designs and works.
(2.) This goodness is more tllie foundationand motive of trust un-
der the gospel, than under the law. They under the law had more
evidences of Divine power, and their trust eyed that much; though
there was :ui cminency of goodness in the frequent deliverances
they had, rn-t the power of God had a more glorious dress than his
goodness, lwcuausc of the extraordinary and miraculous ways where-
y he brought those deliverances about. Therefore, in the catalogue
of believers in Heb. Xi. you shall find the' power of God to be the
centre of their rest and trust; and their faith was built upon the ex-
traordinary marks of Divine power, which were frequently visible
to them. But under the gospel, goodness and love- was intended by
God to be the chief object of trust; suitable to the excellency of
that dispensation, he would have an exercise of more ingenuity in
the creatures: therefore, it is said (Hos.   5), a promise of gospel-
times, “The shall fear God and his goodness in the latter days,"
when they sliall return to “seek the Lord, and David their king.”
It is not said, the shall fear God, and his power, but the Lord and
his goodness, or the Lord for his goodness: fear is often in the Old
Testament taken for faith, or trust. This Divine goodness, the ob-
`ect of faith, is that goodness discovered in David their king; the
iiessiah, our Jesus. God, in this dispensation, recommends his good-
ness and love, and reveals it more clearl than other attributes, that
the soul might have more prevailing andy sweeter attractives to con-
fide in him.
(3.) A confidence in him _gives him the glory of his goodness.
Most nations that had nothing but the light of nature, thought it a
great part of the honor that was due to God, to implore his good-
ness, and cast their cares upon it. To do good, is t e most honor~
able thing in the world, and to acknowledge a goodness in a way of
coniidence, is as high an honor as we can give to it, and a great part
of gratitude for what it hath already expressed. Therefore we find
often, that an acknowledgment of one benet received, was attend-
ed with a trust in him for what they should in the future need (Ps.
lvi. 13): “Thou hast delivered my soul from death, wilt thou not
deliver my feet from falling? So, 2 Cor. i. 10: and they who have
been most eminent for their trust in him, have had the greatest
eulogies and commendations from him. Asa difiidence doth dis-
parage this perfection, thinking it meaner and shallower than it is,
so confidence highly honors it. We never please him more, than
when we trust in him; “The Lord takes pleaslue in them that tear
him, in them that hope in his mercy” (Ps. cxlvii. 11). He takes it
for an honor to have this attribute exalted by such a carriage of his
vol.. 11.-22 °

