838 cmaxocx ON rm: Arrnmurss.
creature. He is no less offended when we think his heart straiten-
ed, as if he were a parsimonious God; than when we _think his arm
shortened, as if he were an im otent and feeble God. Let us, there-
fore, make this use of his goodlixess, to hea.rten our faith. When we
are scared by the terrors of his justice, when -we are dazzled by the
arts of his wisdom, and confounded by the splendor of his majesty,
we may take refuge in the sanctuary of his goodness; this will en-
courage us, as well as astonish us; whereas, the consideration of his
other attributes would only amaze us, but can never refresh us, but
when they are considered marching under the conduct and banners
of this. When all the other erfections of the Divine nature are
looked upon in conjunction with this excellency, each of them send
forth ravishing and benign influences upon the a. plying creature.
It is more advantageous to depend upon Divine lbounty, than our
own cares; we may have better assurance upon this account in his
cares for us, than in ours for ourselves Our goodness for ourselves
is Hnite; and besides, we are too ignorant: his goodness is innnite,
and attended with an infinite wisdom; we have reason to distrust
ourselves, not God. We have reason to be at rest, under that kind
influence we have so often experimented; he hath so much good~
ness, that he can have no deceit: his goodness in making the prom-
ise, and his goodness in working the eart to a reliance on 1t, are
grounds of trust in him ;t “Remember thy word to thy servant,
upon which thou hast caused me to hope” (Ps. cxix. 49%. If his
promise did not please him, why did he make it? If re iance on
the “promise did not please him, wh(y did his goodness work it? It
wo d be inconsistent with his goo ness to mock his creature, and it
would be the highest mockery to .publish his Word, and create a tem-
per in the heart of his supphcant, suited to his promise which he
never intended to satisfy. He can aslittle wrong his.creat1u‘e, as
wrong hin isclf ; and, therefore, can never disappoint that faith which
in his own methods casts itself into the arms of his kindness, and
is his own workmanship, and calls him Author. That goodness that
imparted itself so freely in creation, will not neglect those nobler
creatures that put their trust in him. This renders God a fit object
for trust and confidence. '
8. The eighth instruction: This renders G-od worthy to be obey-
ed and honored. There is an excellency in God to allure, as well as
sovereignty to en`oin obedience: the infinite excellency of his na-
ture is so- great, that if his goodness had promised us nothing to en-
courage our obedience, we ought to aprefer him before oiuselves, de~
vote ourselves to serve him, and m e his glory our greatest con-
tent; but much more when he hath given such admirable express-
ions of his liberality, and stored us with hopes of richer and fuller
streams of it. When David considered the absolute goodness of
his nature, and the relative goodness of his benefits, he presently
espresseth an ardent desire to be acquainted with the Divine
statutes, that he might make ingenious returns in a dutiful observ-
ance; “Thou alt good, and thou dost good; teach me thy statutes"
(Ps. cxix. 63). As his goodness is the original, so the acknowledg-
ment zf it is the end 01 all, which cannot be without an observance
, .

