\
on mn eoonssss or son. 339
of his wil.. His goodness requires of us an in nuous, not a servilo
obedience. And this is established upon two gdundations.
EL] Because the bounty of God hath laid upon us the strongest
ob 'gations. The strengt of an obligation depends upon the great-
ness and numerousness of the benefits received. The more excel-
lent the favors are which are conferred upon any person, the more
right hath the benefactor to claim an observance from the person
bettered by him. Much of the rule and empire which hath been in
several ages conferred by communities upon rinces, hath had its
first spring from a sense of the advantages tll)ey have received by
them, either in protecting them from their enemies, or rescuing them
from an ignoble captivity; in enlarging their territories, or increasing
their wealth. Conquest hath been the original of a constrained, but
beneficence always the original of a voluntary and free subjection.°
Obedience to parents is founded upon their right, because they are
instrumental in bestowing u on us being and life; and because this
of life is so reat a benefit, ilhe law of nature never dissolves this
obligation 0? obeying and honoring parents; it is as ,long-lived as
the law of nature, and hath an universal practice, by the strength
of that law, in all arts of the world: and those rightful chains are
not unlocked, but hy that which unties the knot between soul and
body: much more hath God a right to be obeyed and reverenced,
who is the principal Benefactor, and moved all those second causes
to impart to us, what conduced to our advantage. The just author-
ity of God over us results from the superlativeness of his blessings
he hath ured down upon us, which cannot be equalled, much less
exceedecgby any other. As therefore upon this account he hath a claim
to om' choiccst afections, so he hath also to most exact obedience;
and neither one nor other can be denied him, without a. sordid and dis-
ingen uous ingratitude; God therefore aggravat/es the rebellion of the
Jews from the cares he had in the bringing them up (Isa.   2), and the
miraculous deliverance from Egypt (Jer. xi. 7, 8) ; implying that those
benefits were strong obligations to an ingenuous observance of him.
[2.] It is established upon this, that God can enjoin the observ
ance of nothing but what is good. He may by the right of his
sovereign dominion, command that which is indifferent in its own
nature: as in positive laws, the not eating the fruit of the tree of
the knowledge of good and evil, which had not been evil in itself,
set aside the command of God to the contrary; and likewise in those
ceremonial laws he gave the Jews: but in regard to the transcendent
goodness and righteousness of his nature, e will not, he cannot
command anything that is evil in itself, or repugnant to the true
interest of his creature; and God never obliged the creature to any-
thing but what was so free from damaging it, that it higlhly conduced
to its good and welfare: and therefore it is said, that “ 's commands
are not grievous” (1 John v. 3): not grievous in their own nature
nor grievous to one possewed with a true reason. The command
given to Adam in Paradise was not grievous in itself, nor couhl he
ever have thought it so, but upon a false supposition instilled into
him by the tempter. There is a pleasure results from the Jaw of God
° Amyrnld. Dissert. p. 66. ' -

