840 cnmuocx ON 'run Arrninurss.
to a holy rational na-ture, a sweetness tasted both by the understand~
ing and by the will, for they both “rejoice the heart and enlighten
the eyes” of the mind (Ps. xix. 8). God being essentially wisdom
and goodness, cannot deviate from that goodness in any orders he
gives the creature; whatsoever he enacts must be agreeable to that
rule, and therefore he can will nothing but what is ood and excel-
lent, and what is good for the creature; for since he iath put origin-
ally into man a natural instinct to desire that which is good, he
would never enact any thing for the creature’s observance,P that
might control that desire im rinted by himself, but what might
countenance that impression of) his own hand; for if God did other-
wise, he would contradict his own natlual law, and be a deluder of
his creatures, if he impressed upon them desires one way, and order-
ed directions another. The truth is, all his moral precepts are
comely in themselves, and they receive not their goodness from God's
positive command, but that command supposeth their goodness; if
everythin were good because God loves it, or because God wills it,
i. e. that (.§od’s loving it or willin it made that good which was not
good before, then, as Oamero well argues somewhere, God’s goodness
would depend upon his lovin himself; he was good because he
loved himself, and was not good till he loved himself; whereas, in-
deed, God’s loving himself, doth not make him good, but sup oseth
him good: he was good in the order of nature before he loved) him-
self; and his being good was the ground of his loving himself, be-
cause, as was said before, if there were anything better than God,
God would love that; for it is inconsistent with the nature of God
and infinite goodness not to love that which is good, and not to love
that supremely which is the supreme good. Further to understand if,
you may consider, if the question be asked, why God loves himself
£ou would think it a reasonable answer to say, because `he is good
ut if the question be_ asked, why God is ood? you would think
that answer, because he loves himself, would be destitute of reason;
but the true answer would be, because his nature is so, and he could
not be God if he were not good: therefore God’s goodness is in or-
der of our conception before his self-love, and not his selfilove be-
fore his goodness; so the moral things God commands, are good in
themselves before God commands them; and such, that if God
should command the contr , it would openly s eak him evil and
unrighteous. Abstract fromigri ture, and weigh things in your own
reason; could you conceive Grodp good, if he should commanda crea-
ture not to love him? could you reserve the notion of a good nature
in him, if he did command murder, adultery, tyranny, and cutting
of throats? You would wonder to what purpose he made the world,
and framed it for society, if such things were ordered, that should
deface all comeliness of society: the moral commands given in the
word, a peared of themselves very beautiful to mere reason, that
had no inowledge of the written law; they are good, and because
they are so, his goodness had moved his sovereign authority strictly
to enjoin them. ‘Now this goodness, whereby he cannot oblige a
P “ As a heathen,” Maximus Tyrius, Dissert. 22, p. 220. 06 ydp 0E;n¢~ Ati Bouiledil.
MM ‘rc i/ re I¢|i;»ltd`TOV.

