ON ran eooDNEss or eon. 341
creatine to anything that is evil, speaks him highly worthy of our
observance, and our disobedience to his law to be full of inconceiv
able malignity: that is the last thing.
Second Use is of comfort. He is a good without mixture, good
without weariness-none good but God, none good purely, none
good inexhaustibl , but God; because he is good, we may, u on our
speaking, expect liis instruction; “ Good is the Lord, theretldre will
he teach sinners in his way” (Ps. xxv. 8). His goodness makes him
stoop to be the tutor to those worms that lie prostrate before him;
and though they are sinners full of filth, he drives them not from his
school, nor denies them his medicines, if they apply themselves to
him as a physician. He is good in removing the punishment due to
our crimes, and good in bestowing benefits not due to our merits;
because he is good, enitent believers may expect forgiveness ; “ Thou,
Lord, art good, and) ready to forgive” (Ps. lxxxvi. 5). He acts not
according to the rigor of the law, but willingly grants his pardon to
those that fly into the arms of the Mediator; his goodness makes him
more ready to forgive, than our necessities make us desirous to en-
joy; he c arged not upon Job his impatient expressions in cursin
the day of his birth; his goodness passed that over in silence, and
extols him for speaking the thing t at is right, right in the main,
when he charges his friends for not speaking of him the thing that
is right, as his servant Job had done (J ob xlii. 7). He is so good,
that if we oifer the least thing sincerely, he will graciously receive
it; if we have not a lamb to ofier, a pigeon or turtle shall be accepted
upon his altar; he stands not upon costly presents, but sincerely ten-
dered services. All conditions are sweetened bfy it; whatsoever any
in the world enjoy, is from a redundancy o this goodness; but
whatsoever a good man enjoys, is from a propriety in this goodness.
1. Hereis comfort in our addresses to him. If he be a fountain and
sea of goodness, he cannot be weary of doing good, no more than a
fountain or sea are of flowing. All goodness elights to communi-
cate itself; infinite goodness hath then an inhnite delight in express-
ing itself; it is a part of his goodness not to be weary of showing
it; he can never, then, be weary of being solicited for the effusions
of it; if he rejoices over his people to do them good, he will rejoice
in any opportunities offered to him to honor his goodness, and gladly
meet with a fit subject for it; he therefore delightsin prayer. Never
can we so delight in addressing, as he doth in imparting; he delights
more in our prayers than we can ourselves; goodness is not pleased
with shyness. 0 what purpose did his inrmense bounty bestow his
Son upon us, but that we should be “accepted” both in our persons
and petitions (Eph. i. 6)? “His eyes are upon the righteous, and
his ears are open to their cry" (Ps. xxxiv. 15); he ‘dxes the eye of
his goodness upon them, an opens the ears of his goodness for them ;
he is pleased to behold them, and pleased to listen to them, as if he
had no pleasure in anything else ; he loves to be sought to, to give
a vent to his bounty ; “ Ac uaint thyself with God, and thereby
good shall come unto thee” zlob xxii. 21). The word signifies, to
accustom ourselves to God; the more we aocustom ourselves in
speaking, the more he will accustom himself in giving; he loves not

