B42 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'l‘RIBU’.l'E.
to keep his goodness close under lock and key, as men do their
treasures. If we knock, he opens his exchequer (Matt.   7); his
goodness is as flexible to our importunities, as his poweris invincible
y the arm of a silly- worm; he thinks his liberality honored by be-
ing applied to, and your address to be a recompense for his ex nse.
There is no reason to fear, since he hath so kindly invited us, Edt he
will as heartily welcome us; the nature of goodness is to compassion-
ate and communicate, to pity and relieve, and that with a. heartiness
and cheerfulness; man is weary of being often solicited,because he hath
a finite, not a bottomless, goodness: he gives sometimes to be rid of
his suppliant, not to encourage him to a second approach. But every
experience God gives us of his bount , is a motive to solicit him
afresh, anda kind of obligation he hatli laid upon himself to “ renew
it” (1 Sam. xvii. 37): it is one part of his goodness that it is bound-
less and bottomless; we need not fear the wasting of it, nor an
weariness in him to bestow it. The stock cannot be spent, and ing-
nite kindness can never become niggardly; when we have enjoyed
it, there is still an innnite ocean in Him to refresh us, and as full
streams as ever to su ly us. What an encoura ement have we to
draw near to Godl we run in our straits to those that we think
have most good will, as well as wer to relieve and protect us. The
oftener we come to him, and th); nearer we approach to him, the
more of his influences we shall feel: as the nearer the sun, the more
of its heat insinuates itself into us. The greatness of God, joined
with his goodness, hath more reason to encourage our approach to
him, than our flight from him, because his greatness never goes
unattended with his goodness; and if we were not so good, he would
not be so great in the ap rehensions of any creature. How may his
goodness, in the great   of his Son, encourage us to a ply to im:
since he hath set him as a day’s-man between himselfp and us, and
appointed him an Advocate to present our requests for us, and speed
t em at the throne of grace; and he never leaves till Divine good-
ness subscribes a fhrt to our believi and just petitions l `
2. Here is comfort inaiilictions. l1gWhat can we fear from the con-
duct of Infinite Goodness? Can his hand be heavy upon those that
are humble before him? They are the hands of Infinite Power in-
deed., but thereis not any motion -of it upon his people, but is or-
dered by a goodness as infinite as his power, which will not suffer
any afliiction to be too sharp or too long. By what ways soever he
conveys grace to us here, and repares us for glory hereafter, the
are good, and those are the goodllzhings he hath chiedy obliged  
to give (Ps. lxxxiv. 11): “Grace and glory” will he “ `ve, and no
good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprigiltly." This
David comforted himself with, in that which his devout soul ao-
counted the greatest calamity, his absence from the courts and houaa
of God (ver.   Not an ill will, but a good will, directs his scourges;
he is not an i e spectator of our combats; his thoughts are fuller of
kindness than ours, in any case, can be of trouble: and because he
is good, he wills the best good in everything he acts; in exercising
virtue, or correcting vice. There is no addiction without some ap-
parent mixtures of goodness; when he speaks how he had smitten

