on 'ma GOODNESS or con. 348
Israel (J er, ii. 30), he presently adds gver. 31), “ Have Ibeen a wil-
derness to Israel, a land of 'darkness?’ Thoughhe led them throu h
a desert, yet he was not a desert to them ; he was no land of dai-
ness to them; while they marched through a land of barrennew, he
was a caterer to provi e them “manna,” and a place of “broad
rivers” and streams. How often hath Divine oodness made our
aillictions our consolations; our diseases, our medicines, and his gen-
tle strokes, revivin cordials! _ How doth he provide for us above
our deserts, even wiile he doth punish us beneath our merits! Di-
vine goodness can no more mean ill, than Divine wisdom can be
mista en in its end, or Divine power overruled in its actions.
“ Charity thinks no evil” (1 Cor. xiii. 5); charit in the stream doth
not, much less doth charity in the fountain. 'llb be afflicted by a
hand of goodness hath something comfortable in it, when to be
aiilicted by an evil hand is ve odious. Elijah, who was loth to
die by the hand of a whorish illlolatrous Jezebel, was very desirous
to die by the hand of God (1 Kings, xix. 2-4). He accounted it a
misery to have died by her hand, who hated him, and had nothing
but cruelty; and, therefore, fled from her, when he wished for death,
as a desirable thing by the hand of that God who had been good to
him, and could not but be good in whatsoever he acted.
3. The third comfort flowing from this doctrine of the goodness
of God, is, it is a ground of assurance of ha piness. If God be so
good, that nothing is better, and loves himselt, as he is good, he can-
not be wanting in love to those that resemble his nature, and imitate
his goodness : he cannot but love his own image of goodness;
wherever he iinds it, he cannot but be bountiful to it; for it is im-
possible there can be any love to any object, without wishing well
to it, and doing well for it. If the soul loves God as its chiefest
good, God will love the soul as his pious servant: as he hath offered
to them the highest allurements, so he will not withhold the choicest
communications. Goodness cannot be a deluding thing; it cannot
consist with the nobleness and largeness of this perfection to invite
the creature to him, and leave the creatine empty of him when it
comes. It is inconsistent with this perfection to give the creature a
knowledge of himself, and a desire of enjoyment larger than that
knowledge; a desire to know, and enjoy him erpetually, yet never
intend to bestow an eternal communication of himself upon it. The
nature of man was erected by the (goodness of God, but with an en-
larged desire for the highest goo , and a capacity of enjoying it.
Can goodnem be thought to be deceitful, to frustrate its own work, be
tired with its own etfusions, to let a gracious soul an under its
burden, and never resolve to ease him of it; to see gelightfully the
aspirings of the creature to another state, and resolve never to admit
him to a ha . py issue of those desires? It is not agreeable to this
inconceivable perfection to be unconcemed in the longings of his
creature, since their Brst longings were placed in them by that good-
ness which is so free from mocking the creature, or falling short of
its well- unded expectations or desires, that it infinitely exceeds
them. lfoman had continued in innocence, the goodness of God,
without question, would have continued him in happiness. and,

