844 cnmmocx ON ran Ammmurss.
since he hath had so much goodness to restore man, would it not he
dishonorable to that goodness to break his own conditions, and de-
feat the believing creature of happiness, after it hath complied with
his terms? He is a believer’s God in covenant, and is a God in the
utmost extent of this attribute, as well as of any other; and, there-
fore, will not communicate mean and shallow benefits, but according
to the grandeur of it, sovereign and divine, such as the gift of a
happy immortality. Since he had no obligation upon him, to make
any promise, but the sweetness of his own nature, the same is as
strong upon him to make all the words of his grace good ; they cannot
be invalid in any one tittle of them as lon as his nature remains the
same; and his goodness cannot be diminiied without the impairing
of his Godhead, since it is inseparable from it. Divine goodness will
not let any man serve God for nought; he hath promised our weak obe-
dience more than any man in his right wits can say it merits (Matt.
x. 42): “ A cup of cold water shall not lose its reward." He will
manifest our good actions as he gave so high a testimony to Job, in
the face ofthe devil, his accuser: it will not only be the ha piness
of the soul, but of the body, the whole man, since soul and   were
in conjunction in the acts of righteousness; it consists not with the
goodness of God to reward the one, and to let the other lie in the
ruins of its Hrst nothing : to bestow joy upon the one for its being prin-
cipal, and leave the other without any sentiments of jo , that was in-
strumental in those good works, both commanded andy approved by
God: he that had the goodness to pity our original dust, will not
want a goodness to advance‘it: and if we put off our bodies, it is
but afterwards to ut them on re aired and fresher. From this
goodness, the upriglit may expect all the happiness their nature is
capable oil
4. It is a ground of comfort in the midst of ublic dangers. This
hath more sweetness in it to support us, than this malice of enemies
hath to deject us; because he is “ good,” he is “ a stronghold in the
day of trouble” (Nah. i. 7). If his goodness extends to all his crea-
tures, it will much more extend to those that honor him: if the earth
be full of his goodness, that part of heaven which he hath uplonearth
shall not be empty of it. He hath a goodness often to de 'ver the
righteous, and a justice to put the wicked in his stead (Prov. xi. 8).
When his people have been under the power of .their enemies, he
hath changed the scene, and put the enemies under the power of his
people: he hath clapped upon them the same bolts which the did
upon his servants. How comfortable is this goodness that hath yet
maintained us in the midst of dangers, preserved us in the mouth of
lions, quenched kindled fire; hitherto rescued us from designed ruin
subtilly hatched, and sup orted us in the midst of men very passion-
ate for cur destruction; how hath this watchful goodness been a
sanctuary to us in the midst of an upper hell!
Third (ke is of exhortation.
1. How should we endeavor after the enjoyment of God as good!
How earnestly should we desire him! As there is no other good~
ness worthy of our supreme love, so there is no other goodness worthy
om most ardent thirst. Nothing deserves the name of a desirable

