ON 'mm sooDNEss os son. 345
good, but as it tends to the attainment of this: here we must pitch,
our desires, which otherwise will terminate in nullities or incon
ceivable disturbances.
(1.) Consider, nothing but good can be the object of a rational
appetite. The will cannot direct its motion to anything under the
notion of evil, evil in itself, or evil to it; whatsoever courts it must
present itself in the quality of a good in its own nature, or in its
present circumstances to the present state and condition of the de-
sire; it will not else touch or affect the will. This is the language
of that faculty: “Who will show me any good ?” (Ps. iv. 6), and
ghood is as inseparably the object of the will’s motion, as truth is of
t e understandings inrpliiry. Whatsoever a man would allure
another to eompliewith, e must propose to the person under the
notion of some neficialness to im in int o honor, profit, or
pleasure. To act after this manner is thi; pro er character of a
rational creature; and though that which is evil) is often embraced
instead of that which is' good, and what we entertain as conducing
to our felicity proves our misfortune, yet that is from our ignorance,
and not from a formal choice of it as evil; for what evil is chosen
it is not possible to choose under the conception of evil, but under
the appearance of a good, though it be not so in reality. It is in-
separa le from the W' ls of all men to propose to themselves that
w ich in the opinion and judgment of their understandings or im
agination is good, though they often mistake and cheat themselves.
(2.) Since that good is the object of a rational appetite, the purest,
best, and most universal good, such as God is, ought to be most
sought aH.er. Since good only is the object of a rational appetite,
all the motions of our souls should be carried to the first and best
good: a real good is most desirable; the greatest excellency of the
creatures cannot s ak them so, since, by the corruption of man,
the are “ subjected” to vanity" (Rom. viii. 20). God is the most ex-
cellient good without any shadow; a real something without that
nothing which every creature hath in its nature (Isa. xl. 17). A
perfect good can only give us content: the best goodness in the
creature is but slender and imperfect; had not the venom of cor-
ruption infused a vanity into it, the make of it speaks it Hnite, and
the best ualities in it are bounded, and cannot give satisfaction to
a rational appetite which bears in its nature an imitation of Divine
infinitencss, and therefore can never Hnd an eternal rest in mean
trifies. God is above the imperfection of all creatures; creatures
are but drops of goodness, at best but shallow streams; God is like
a teemin ocean, that can till the largest as well as the narrowest
creek. ée hath an accumulative goodness; several creatures answer
several necessities, but one God can answer all our wants: he hath
an universal fulness, to overtop our universal emptiness: he con~
tains in himself the sweetness of all other goods, and holds in hi;
bosom plentifully what creatures have in their natures splaringly.
Creatures are uncertain goods; as they begin to exist, so t ey may
cease to be; the may be gone with a breath, they will certa’nly
languish if God blows upon them (Isa. xl. 2,-Q: the same breath that
raised them can blast them; but who can r' e God of the least part

