846' cnsnsoex ON 'ms srramurss. 1
of his exeellency? Mutability is inherent in the nature of every
creature, as a creature. _ All subhmary things are as gourds, that re-
fresh us one moment with their presence, and the next fret us with
their absence; like fading ilowers, strutting today, and drooping
to-morrow (Isa. xl. 6): while we possess them, we cannot clip their
wings, that may carry them away from us, and may make us vainly
seek what we thought we Hrmly held. But God is as permanent a-
good as he is a real one: he hat wings to fly to them that seek him,
ut no wings to ii from them forever, and leave them. God is an
imiversal good; tllat which is good to one may be evil to another;
avhat is desirable by one may be refused as inconvenient for another:
but God being an universal, unstained good, is useful for all, con-
venient to the natures of all but such as will continue in enmity
against him. There is nothing in God can displease a soul that
desires to please him; when we are in darkness, he is a light to
scatter it ; when we are in want, he hath riches to relieve us; when
we are in spiritual death, he is a Prince of life to deliver us; when
we are den ed, he is holiness to purify us: it is in vain to fix our
hearts anywhere but on him, in the desire of whom there is a delight,
and in the enjoyment of whom there is an inconceivable leasure.
  He is most to be sought after, since all things ellie that are
desirable had their goodness from him. If anything be desirable
because of its goodness, _God is much more desirable because of his,
since all things are good by a participation, and nothing good but
by his print upon it: as what being creatures have was derived to
them by God, so what goodness they are possessed with they were
furnished with it by God; all goodness flowed from him, and all
created goodness is summed up in him. The streams should not
terminate our appetite without aspiring to the fountain. If the
waters in the channel, which receive mixture, communicate a plea-
sure, the taste of the fountain must be much more delicious; that
olrigiual Perfectilonhoff; all tlliingg hath in inconeeivaible beauty above
t ose things it at ame ince t ose thin ive not their
own strength, nor nourish us by their own liI>sera1ity, but lay the
“ word of God" (Matt. iv. 3, that God that speaks them into life,
and speaks them into usef ness, should be most ardently desired as
the best. If the sparkling glory of the visible heavens delight us,
and the beauty an bounty of the earth please and refresh us, what
should be the language of our souls upon those views and tastes but
that of the Psalmist, “ Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there
is none upon earth that I can desire beside thee” (Ps. lxxiii. 25).
No greater good can possibly be desired, and no less good should be
ardeutly desired. As he is t e supreme good, so we should bear that
regard to him as supremely, and above all, to thirst for him: as he
is good, he is the object of desire; as the ohoicest and first goodness,
he is desirable with the greatest vehemency. “Give me children,
or else I die” fren. xxx. 1), was an uncomely speech; the one was
granted, and t e other inflicted; she had children, but the last cost
er her life: but, Give me God, or I will not be content, is a gracious
‘B och, wherein we cannot miscarry; all that God demands of us is,
th; we should long for him, and look for our happiness only in

