A \
‘ ON 'rim eoomrnss or con. » 847
him. (;I'hat is the Hrst thing, endeavor after the enjoyment of God
as goo .
2. Often meditate on the goodness of God. What was man pro-
duced for, but to settle his thoughts upon this? What should have
been Adam’s emplo ent in innocence, but to read over all the lines
of nature, and fix lig contem lations on that good hand that drew
them? What is man endued) with reason for, above all other ani-
mals, but to take notice of this goodness spread over all the creatures,
which they themselves, though they felt it, could not have such a
sense of as to make answerable returns to their Benefactor? Can
we' satisfy ourselves in being spectators of it, and enjo ers of it, only
in such a manner as the brutes are? The beasts belilold things as
well as we, they feel the warm beams of this goodness as well as we,
but without any reflection upon the Author of them. Shall Divine
blessings meet with no more from us but a brutish view and be-
holding of them? What is more 'ust, than to s end a thought upon
Him who hath enlarged his hand in so many benefits to us? Are
we indebted to any more than we are to him? Why should we
send our souls to visit anything more than him in his works? That
we are able to meditate on him is a part of his goodness to us, who
hath bestowed that capacity upon us; and, if we will not, it is a
great part of our ingratitude. Can anything more delightful enter
into us, than that of the kind and gracious disposition of that God
who first brought us out of the abyss of an unhappy nothing, ' and
hath hitherto spread his wings over us? Where can we meet with
a nobler object than Divine goodness? and what nobler work can
be practised by us than to consider it? What is more sensible in all
the operations of his hands than his skill, as the are considered in
themselves, and his goodness, as they are considyered in relation to
us? It is strange that we should miss the thoughts of it; that we
should *look upon this earth, and everything in it, and yet overlook
that which it is most full of; viz. Divine goodness (Ps.   5); it
runs through the whole web of the world; all is fi-amed and diversi-,
fied by goodness; it is one entire single goodness, which appears in
various garbs and dresses in every part of the creation. Can we
turn our eyes inward, and send our eyes outward, and see nothin
of a Divinity in both worthy of our deepest and seriousest thoughtsg
Is there anything in the world we can behold, but we see his bounty,
since nothing was made but is one way or other beneficial to us?
Can we think of our daily food, but we must have some reflecting
thoughts on our great Caterer? Can the sweetness of the creature
to our palate obscure the sweetness of the Provider to our minds?
It is strange that we should be regardless of that wherein every
creature without us, and every sense within us and about us, is a
tutor to instruct us! Is it not reason we should think of the times
wherein We were nothing, and from thence run back to a never~be-
gun eternity, and view ourselves in the thoughts of that goodn
to be in time brought forth u n this stage, as we are at preseili?
Can we consider but one act oi`)?>ur understandings, but one thought,
one blossom, one spark of our souls mounting upwards, and not re-
Bect upon the goodness of God to us, who, in that faculty that

