848 cmmrocx ON THE Arrnrsvrrs.
sparkles out rational thoughts, has advanced us to a nobler state,
and endued us with 9. nobler principle, than all the creatures we see
'on earth, except those of our own rank and kind? Can we consider
but one foolish thought, one sinful act, and reflect upon the guilt
and filth of it, and not behold goodness in sparin us, and miracles
of goodness in sending his Son to die for us, for the expiation of it?
This perfection cannot well be out of our thoughts, or at least it is
horrible it should, when it is writ in every line of the creation, and
in at legible rubric, in bloody letters, in the cross of his Son. Let us
think with ourselves, how often he hath multiplied his blessings,
when we did deserve his wrathl how he hath sent one unexpected
benefit upon the heel of another, to bring us with a swift pace the
tidings o good-will to us! how often hath he delivered us from a
disease that had the arrows of death in its hand ready to pierce usl
how often hath he turned our fears into jo s, and our istempers into
promoters of our felicityl how often hath he mated a temptation,
sent seasonable sup lies in the midst of a sore distress, and prevented
many dangers which we could not be so sensible of, because we were,
in a great measure, ignorant of them! How should we meditate
upon is goodness to our souls, in preventing some sins, in pardon-
ing others, in darting u on us the knowledge of his gospel, and of
himself, in the face of  Son Christ! This _seems to stick much
upon the spirit of Paul, since he doth so often sprinkle his epistles
with the titles of the “grace of God, riches of grace, unsearchable
riches of God, riches of glory,” and cannot satisfy himself, with the
extolling of it. Certainly, we should bear upton our heart a deep
and mpuick sense of this erfection; as it was t e design of God to
mani est it, so it would li; acceptable to God for us to have a sense
of it: a dull receiver of his blessings is no less nauseous to him than
a dull dispenser of his alms; he loves a “cheerful giver” (2 Cor. ix.
7); he doth himself what he loves in others; he is cheerful in giv-
ing, and he loves we should be serio\1s in thinking of him, and have
a right apprehension and sense of his oodness.
(1.) A right sense of his goodness gould dispose us to an ingenu
ous worship of God. It would damp our averseness to any act of
religion; what made David so resolute and ready to “worship to-
wards his holy tcmple" but the sense of his “loving kindness `?’ (Ps.
cxxxviii. 2). This would render him always in our mind a worthy
object of our devotion, a stable ro of om' confidence. We should
then adore him, when we consider him as “ our God,” and ourselves
as “the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand” (Ps. xcv.
7): we s ou d send up prayers with strong faith and feeling, and
praises with great joy and leasure. The sense of his gpodness
would make us love him, and) our love to him would quic en our
adoration of him; but if we regard not this, we shall have no mind
to think of him, no mind to act anything towards him; we ma
tremble at his presence, but not heartily worship him; we shall
rather look upon him as a tyrant, and think no ot er affection dup
to him than what we reserve for an oppressor, 1il;1.'l.1&li1`6d and i1l~
will.
(2.) A sense of it will keep us humble. A sense of it would effect

