ON THE GOODNESS OF GOD. 349
that Ear which itself was intended; viz. brin us to J. re entance for
our crimes, and not suffer us to harden ourseifes againstlliim. When
we should deeply consider how he hath made the sun to shine upon
us, and his rain to fall upon the earth for our support; the one to
supple the earth, and the other to assist the juice of it to bring forth
fruits; how would it reflect u on us our ill requitals, and make us
hang down om' heads before liim in a low posture, pleasing to him,
and advantageous to ourselves! What would the Brst charge be
upon ourselves, but what Moses brings in his expostulation against
the Israelites (Dcut. xxxii. 6): “ Do I thus re uite the Lord?"
What is this goodness for me, who am so much bdlow him; for me,
who have so much incensed him; for me, who have so much abused
what he hath allowed? It would bring to remembrance the horror
of our crimes, and set us a blushing before him, when we should
consider the multitude of his benefits, and our unworthy behaviour,
that hath not constrained him even against the inclination of his
goodness, to punish us: how little should wewplead for a further
liberty in sin, or palliate our former faults! hen we set Divine
goodness in one column, and our transgressions in another, and com-
pare together their several items, it would ‘dll us with a deep eon~
sciousness of our own guilt, and divest us of any worth of our own
in our approaches to hun; it would humble us, that we cannot love
so obliging a God as much as he deserves to be loved by us; it
would make us humble before men. Who would be proud of a
mere gift which he knows he hath not merited? How ridiculous
would that servant be, that should be proud of a rich livery, which
is a badge of his service, not a token of his merit, but of his ma.ster’s
magnificence and bounty, which, though he wear this day, he may
he stripped of to-morrow, and be turne out of his master’s family I
(3.) A sense of the Divine goodness would make us faithful to him.
The goodness of God obligeth us to serve him, not to offend him;
the freeness of his goodness should make us more ready to contribute
to the advancement of his glory. When we consider the benefits of
a hiend proceed out of kindness t/o us, and not out of self ends and
vain app ause, it works more upon us, and makes us more careful of
the honor of such a person. It is a pure bounty God hath manifest-
ed in creation and providence, which could not be for himself, Who,
being blessed forever, wanted nothing from us: it was not to draw
a profit from us, but to impart an advantage to us; “Our goodness
extends not to him” (Ps. xvi. 2). The service of the benefactor is
but a rational return for beneits; whence Nehemiah a gravates the
sins of the Jews (Neh. ix. 35): “They have not served thee in thy
ggi.; goodness that thou gavest them ;” i. e. which thou didst freely
w u n them. How should we dare to spend upon our lusts
that whicliowe possess, if we considered by whose liberality we came
by it? how should we dare to be unfaithful in the goods he hath
made us trustees of? A deep sense of Divine goodness will enno-
ble the creature, and make it act for the most glorious and noble
end; it would strike Satan’s temptation dead at ablow; it would
g-ull off the false mask and vizor from what he presents to us, to
aw us from the service of our Benefactor; we could not, with a

