850 _ cnnmocx ON 'rms Arrnmurss.
sense of this, think him kinder to us than God hath, and will he,
which is the great motive of men to join hands with him, and tum
their backs upon God.
(4.) A sense of the Divine goodness would make us patient under
our miseries. A deep sense of this would make us give God the
honor of his goodness in whatsover he doth, though the reason of
nis actions be not apparent to us, nor the event and issue of his pm-
oeedings foreseen by us. It is a stated case, that goodness can never
intend ill, but designs good in all its acts “to them that love God"
(Rom. viii. 28): nay, he always designs the best; when he bestows
anything upon his peop-lg, he sees it best they should have it; and
when he removes anyt ` g from them, he sees it best they should
lose it. When we have lost a thin we loved, and refuse to be eom~
forted, a sense of this perfection, wiich acts God in all, would keep
us from misjudging our suiferings, and measuring the intention of
the hand that sent them, by the sharpness of what we feel. What
patient, fully persuaded of the affection of the physician, would not
value him, though that which is given to purge out the humors,
racks his bowels? When we lose what we love, perhaps it was
some outward lustre tickled our apprehensions, and we did not see
the viper we would have harmed ourselves by; but God seeing it,
snatched it from us, and we mutter as if he had been cruel, and de~
prived us of the glood we imagined, when he was kind to us, and
eed us from the urt we should certainly have felt. We should
regard that which in goodness he takes &om us, at no othermte
than some gilded poison and lurking venom; the sufferings of men,
though upon high provocations, are often followed with rich mercies,
and many times are intended as preparations for greater goodnes.
When God utters that rhetoric of his bowels, “How shall I give
thee up, O E hraim, I will not execute the fierceness of my anger!"
(Hos. xi. 8), Ee intended them mercy in their captivity, and would
prepare them by it, to walk after t e Lord. And it is likelythe
posterity of those ten tribes were the irst that ran to God, uipon the
publishing the gospel in the places where they lived; he oth not
take away himself when he takes away outward comforts; while he
snatcheth away the rattles we play with, he hath a breast in himself
for us to suck. The consideration of his goodness would dispose IB
to a composed frame of s irit. If we are sick, it is goodnes, it is a
disease, and not a hell. llt is goodness, that it is a c oud, and not a
total darkness. What if he transfers from us what we have? he
takes ns more than what his goodness first im arted to us; and
never takes so much from his people as his goodhess leaves them:
if he strips them of their lives, he leaves them their souls, with those
faculties he furnished them with at Hrst, and removes them from
those houses of clay to a richer mansion. The time of our suflerings
here, were it the whole course of our life, bears not the proportion
of a moment to that endless eternity wherein he hath designed to
manifest his goodness to us. The consideration of Divine goodnm
would teach us to draw a calm even from storms, and distil balsam
from rods. If the reproots of the righteous be an excellent oil (Pl-

