ON rss eoomrsss or son. 351
axlv. 5) we should not think the corrections of a good God to lave
a less virtue. -
(5;)_A sense of the Divine goodness would mount us above the.
worl It would damp our appetites ailer meaner things; we should
look u n the world not as a God, but a gift from God, and never
think th); present better than the Donor. We should never lie soaking
in muddy puddles were we always filled with a sense of the richness
and clearness of this Fountain, wherein we might bathe ourselves;
little petty particles of good would give us no content, when we
were scnsi le of such an unbounded ocean. Infinite goodness, rightly
apprehended, would dull our desires after other things, and sharpen
t em with a keener edge after that which is best of all. How earn-
estly do we long for the presence of a friend, of whose good will
towards us we have full experience.
(6.) It would check any motions of envy: it would make us joy
in the prosperity of good men, and hinder us from enviing the out-
ward felicity of the wicked. We should not dare wi an evil e e
to censure his ood hand (Matt. xx. 15), but approve of what he
thinks ‘dt to do,l>oth in the matter of his liberality and the subjects
he chooscth for it. Though if the disposal were in our hands, we
should not imitate him, as not thinking them subjects fit for our
bounty; yet since it is in his hands, we be to approve of his actions'
and not have an ill will towards him for his goodness, or towards
those he is pleased to make the subject of it. Since all his doles are.
given to “invite man to repentance" (Rom. ii. 4), to envy them those
goods God hath bestowed upon them, is to envy God the glory of his
own goodness, and them the felicity those thindgs miight move them
to aspire to; it is to wish God more contracte , an tlzly neighbor
more miserable: but a dee sense of his sovereign goo ness would
make us re`oice in any marks of it upon others, and move us to bless-
him instead of , censuring him.
(7.) It would make us thankful. What can be the most proper,
the most natural reflection, when we behold the most magnificent
characters he hath imprinted upon our souls; the conveniency of the
members he hath com acted in our bodies, but a praise of him?
Such motion had Davidp upon the first consideration: “ I will praise
thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made” (Ps. cxxxix. M);
What could be the most natural reflection, when we behold the ric
rerogatives of our natures above other creatures, the provision he
hath made for us for our delight in the beauties of heaven, for our
support in the creatures on earth? What can reasonably be expected
from uncorrupted man, to be the 'first motion of his soul, but an ex-
tolling the bountiful hand of the invisible donor, whoever he be?
This would make us venture at some endeavors of a grateful ac-
knowledgment, though we should despair of rendering anything pro-
portionable to the greatness of the benefit; and such an acknowledg-
ment of our own weakness would be an acceptable part of our
gratitudc. Without a due and deep sense of Divine oodncm, our
praise of it, and thankfulness for it, will be but coli formal, and
customary; our tongues ma bless him, and our heart slight him:
and this will lead us to the third exhortation:

