\
352 onsnnoox ON 'mn Arrizrnurns.
3. Which is that of thankfulness for Divine goodness. The abso-
lute goodness of God, as it is the excellency of his nature, is the
object of praise : the relative goodness of God, as he is our benefactor,
is the object of thankfulness. This was alwa s a debt due from man
to God; he had obligations in the time ofy his integrity, and was
then to render it; he is not less, but more obliged to it in the state
of corruption; the benefits being the greater, by how much the more
unworthy he is of them by reason of his revolt. The bounty be-
stowed upon an enemy that merits the contrary, ought to be received
with a greater resentment than that bestowed on a. friend, who is not
unworthy of testimonies of respect. Gratitude to God is the duty
of every creatine that hath a sense of itself; the more excellent being
any en_]o the more devout ought to be the acknowledgment. How
often doth David stir up, not only himself, but summon all creatures,
even the insensible ones, to join in the concert! He calls to the
“ deeps, fire, hail, snow, mountains and hills,” to bear a part in this
work of praise (Ps. cxlviii); not that they are able to do it actively,
but to show that man is to call in the whole creation to assist him
passively, and should have so much charity to all creatures, as to re-
ceive W at they offer, and so much affection to God, as to present to
him what he receives from him. Snow and hail cannot bless and
praise God, but man ought to praise God for ~those things wherein
there is a mixture of trouble and inconvenience, something to molest
our sense, as well as something that improves the earth for fruit.
This God requires of us: for this he instituted several offerings, and
required a little ortion of fruits to be presented to him, as an ac-
knowledgment tliey held the whole from his bounty. And the end
of the festival days among the Jews was to revive the memory of
those signal acts wherein his power for them, and his goodnem to
them, had been extraordinarily evident; it is no more but our mouths
to praise him, and our hand to obey him, that he exaets at our hands.
He commands us not to expend what he allows us in the erecting
stately temples to his honor; all the coin he reqfuires to be paid with
for his expense is the “offering of thanksgiving’ (Ps. l. 14): and this
we ought to do as much as we can, since we cannot do it as much as
he merits, for “ who can show forth all his praise ?” (Ps. cvi. 2.) If
we have the fruit of his goodness, it is ‘dt he should have the “fruit
of our li s” (Heb. xiii. 15): the least kindness should inflame our
souls with a kindl resentment. Though some of his benets have a
brighter, some a dlirker, aspect towards us, yet they all come from
this common spring; his goodness shines in all; there are the foot~
steps of goodness in the least, as well as the smiles of goodness in
the greatest; the meanest therefore is not to ass without a regard of
the Author. As the glory of God is more illustrious in some crea-
tures than in others, yet it glitters in all, and the lowest as well as
the highest administers matter of praise; but they are not only little
things, but the choicer favors he has bestowed upon us. How much
doth it deserve our acknowledgment, that he should contrive our re-
covery, when we had plotted our ruin! that when he did from eter~
nity behold the crimes wherewith we would incense him, he should
not, according to the rights of justice, cast us into hell, but prize us at

