- g _ ON 'ran coonrrnss or son. 858
U16 rate of the blood and life of his only Son, in value above the
blood of men and lives of angels! How should we bless that God,
that we have yet a gospel among us, that we are not driven into the
utmost regions, that we can attend upon him in the face of the sun,
and not forced to the secret obscurities of the ni ht! Whatsoever
We enjoy, whatsoever we receive, we must own aim as the Donor,
and read his hand in it. Rob him not of any praise to give to an
instrument. No man hath wherewithal to do us good, nor a heart
to do us good, nor opportunities of benefitting us without him.
When the cripple received the soundness of his limbs from Peter, he
praised the hand that sent it, not the hand that brought it (Acts  
6); he “praised God” (ver. 8). When we want anything that is
good, let the goodness of Divine nature move us to David’s practice,
to “thirst after God” (Ps. xlii. 1): and when we feel the motions of
his goodness to us, let us imitate the temper of the same holy man
(Ps. ciii. 2): “Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his
benefits.” It is an unworthy carriage to deal with him as a traveller
doth with a fountain, kneel down to drink of it when he is thirsty,
and turn his back upon it, and perhaps never think of it more after
he is satisfied.
4. And, lastly, Imitate this goodness of God. If his goodness
hath such an influence upon us as to make us love him, it will also
move us with an ardent zeal to imitate him in it. Christ makes this
use from the doctrine of Divine goodness (Matt. v. 44, 45): “Do
good to them that hate you, that you may be the children of your
Father which is in heaven; for he makes is sun to rise on the evil
and on the good.” As holiness is a resemblance of God’s purity, so
charity is a resemblance of God’s goodness; and this our Saviour
calls perfection (ver. 48): “Be ye therefore perfect, even as your
Father, which is in heaven, is perfect.” As God would not be a per-
fect God without goodness, so neither can any be a perfect Christian
without kindness; charity and love being the splendor and loveliness
of all Christian graces, as goodness is the splendor and loveliness of
all Divine attributes. This and holiness are ordered in the Scripture
to be the grand patterns of our imitation. Imitate the goodness of
God in two things. “
(1.) In relieving and assisting others in distress. Let our heart be
as large in the capacity of creatures, as God’s is in the capacity of a
Creator. A large heart from him to us, and a strait heart from us to
others, will not suit: let us not think any so far below us as to be
unworthy of our care, since God thinks none that are infinitely dis»
tant from him too mean for his. His infinite glory mounts him
above the creature, but his infinite goodness stoops him to the mean-
est works of his hands. As he lets not the transgressions of pros-
gprity pass without punishment, so he lets not the distress of his afl
`cted people pass him without support. Shall God provide for the
ease of beasts, and shall not we have some tenderness towards those
that are of the same blood with ourselves, and have as good blood
to boast of as runs in the veins of the mightiest monarch on earth ;
and as mean, and as little as they are, can lay claim to as ancient a
pedigree as the stateliest prince in the world, who cannot ascend to
vox.. xi.-23

