854 CHABNOCK ON 'mn xrrnmurss. ,
ancestors beyond Adam? Shall we glut ourselves with Divine be-
neticence to us, and wear his liver onl on our own backs, forget
ting the atilictions of some dear Jibsepli; when God, who hath an
unblemished felicity in his own nature, looks out of himself to view
and relieve the miseries of poor creatures? Why hath God increased
the doles of his treasures to some more than others? Was it merely
for themselves, or rather that they might have a bottom to attain the
honor of imitating him? Shall we embezzle his goods to our own
use, as if we \vere absolute pro rietors, and not stewards entrusted
for others? Shall we make a ditiiculty to part with something to
others, out of that abundance he hath bestowed upon any of us?
Did not his oodness strip his Son of the glory of heaven for a time
to enrich us? and shall we shrug when we are to part with a little
to pleasure him? It is not very becoming for any to be backward
in suplpl ing the necessities of others with a few morsels, who have
had t e ha piness to have had their atest necessities supplied with
his Son’s blood. He demands not tg; we should strip ourselves of
all for others, but of a. pittance, something of superflurty, which will
turn more to our account than what is vainly and unprontably con-
sumed on our backs and bellies. If he hath given much to any of
us, it is rather to lay aside part of the income for his service; else
we would monopolize Divine goodness to ourselves, and seem to dis-
trust under our present experiments his future kindness, as though
the last thing he gave us was attended with this language, Hoard up
this, andexpect no more from me; 11se it only to the glutting your
avarice, and feeding yo1u° ambition : which would be against the
whole scope of Divine goodness. If we do not endeavor to write
after the comely copy he hath set us, we may rovoke him to han
den himself against us, and   wrath bestow tlliat on the Ere, or on
our enemies, which his goodness hath imparted to us for his glory,
and the supplying the necessities of pplor creat\u'e.s. And, on the
contrary, he is so delighted with this ` d of imitation of him, that
a cup of cold water, when there is no more to be done, shall not be
unrewarded.
(2.) Imitate God in his goodness, in a kindness to our worst ene-
mies. The best man is more unworthy to' receive anything from God
than the worst can be to receive from us. How kind is God to those
that blaspheme him, and gives them the same sun, and the same
showers, that he doth to the best men in the worldl Is it not more
our glory to imitate God in “doing good to those that hate us,” than
to imitate the men of the world in requitin evil, by a return of a
sevenfold mischief? This would be a goodness which would van-
uish the hearts of men, and render us greater than Alexanders and
gaesars, who did only triumph over miserable carcasses; yea, it is to
triumph over ourselves in being good against the sentiments of cor-
rupt nature. Revenge makes us slaves to our passions, as much as
the offenders, and good returns render us victorious over our adverl
sarics (Hom. xii. 21): “ Bc not overcome of evil, but c»\'cr~come evr-
with good.” VVhen we took up our arms against God, his goodnew
contrived not our ruin, but our recovery. This is such a o0dl1$
of God as could not be discovered in an innocent state; wiile mlll

