ADISCOURSE XIII.
ON GOD’S DoMIN1oN.
PBA]-ll ciii. l9.~-The Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens: and his kingdm
ruleth over all.
THE Psalm begins with the praise of God, wherein the penman
excites his soul to a rivht and elevated management of so great a
duty (ver. 1): “Bless time Lord, O my soul: and all that is within
me, bless his holy name :” and because himself and all men were in~
suiiicient to offer up a praise to God answerable to the greatness of
his benelits, he summons in the end of the psalm the angels and all
creatures, to join in concert with him. Observe,
1. As man is too shallow a creature to comprehend the excellency
of God, so he is too dull and scanty a creature to offer up adue
praise to God, both in regard of the excellency of his nature, and
the multitude and greatness of his benefits.
2. We are a t to forget Divine benefits: our souls must therefore
be often jogge£ and roused u . “All that is within me," every power
of my rational, and _every af_iPection of my sensitive part: all his fac-
ulties, all his thoughts. Our souls will hang back from God in every
duty, much more in this, if we lay not a strict charge upon them
We are so void of a pure and entire love to God, that we have no
mind to those duties. Y/Vants will spur us on to prayer, but a ure
love to God can only spirit us to praise. We are more rcmiyto
reach out a hand to receive his mercies, than to lift u our hearts to
recognize them after the receipt. After the Psalmist had summoned
his own soul to this task, he enumerates the Divine blessings received
by him, to awaken his soul by a sense of them to so noble a work.
He begins at the nrst and foundation mercy to himself, the pardon
of his sin and justification of his person, the renewing of his sickly
and languishing nature (ver. Iii): “Who forgives all thy iniquities,
and heals all thy diseases.” is redemption from death, or eternal
destruction; his expected glorification th_ereupon, which he speaks
of with that certainty, as if it were present (ver. 4): “ Who rc eems
thy life from destruction, who crowns thee with loving-kindness and
tender mercies.” He makes his progress to the mercy manifested to
the church in the protection of it against, or delivery of it from, op-
ressions (ver. 6); “The Lord executeth righteousness and judvment
¥or all that are oppressed.” In the discovery of his will and law,
and the glory of his merciful name to it (ver. 7, 83; “He made known
his ways unto Moses, and his acts unto the chil en of Israel. The
Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in inencyz"
I

