ON GODS DOMINION. 857
which latter words may refer also to the free and unmerited spring
of the benents he had reckoned u : viz., the mercy of God, which
he mentions also (ver. 10): “He hath not dealt with us after our
sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities ;” and then extols
the perfection of Divine mercy, in the pardoning of sin (ver. 11, 12);
the paternal tenderness of God (ver. 13); the eternity of his mercy
(ver. 17); but restrains it to the pro er object (ver. 11, 17), “to them
that fear him ;” i. e. to them that gelieve in him. Fear being the
word commonly used for faith in the Old Testament, under the legal
dispensation, wherein the spirit of bondage was more eminent than
gi; spirit of adoption, and their fear more than their confidence.
serve,
1. All true blessings grow up from the pardon of sin (ver. 3):
“Who forgives all thine iniquities." That is the first blessing, the
top and crown of all other favors, which draws all other blessings
after it, and sweetens all other blessin with it. The principal in-
tent of Christ was expiation of sin, reidsemption from ini uity; the
purchase of other blessings was consequent upon it. Pardon of sin
IS every blessin virtually, and in the root and spring it flows from
the favor af Goi and is such a gift as cannot be tainted with a ciuse,
as outwar thinfrs ma .
2. VVhere sinois pabidoned, the soul is renewed (ver. 3): “Who
heals all thy diseases.” Where guilt is remitted, the deformity and
sickness of the soul is cured. Forgiveness is a teeming mercy; it
never goes single; when we have an interest in Christ, as bearing
the chastisement of our peace, we receive also a balsam from his
blood, to heal the wounds \ve feel in our nature. (Isa. liii. 5); “The
chastisernent of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are
healed.” As there is a guilt in sin, which binds us over to punish-
ment, ~so there is a contagion in sin, which fills us with cstilcnt dis-
eases; when the one is removed, the other is cured. Wie should not
know how to love the one without the other. The renewing the soul
is necessa for a delightful relish of the other blessings of God. A
condemned malefactor, infected with a leprosy, or anynother loathsome
dlisterrpyaer, if glardoned, cougdhtakel little comfort in 's freedom from
te ' etwit outacureo is a e.
3.glGod is the sole and sovereigii ildthor of all s iritual blessin :
“Who forgives all thy iniquities, and heals all tliy diseases.” Qs
refers all to God, nothing to himself in his own merit and strength.
All, not the pardon of one sin merited by me, not the cure of one
disease can I owe to my own power, and the strength of m_v free-
will, and the o erations of nature. He, and he alone is the Prince
of pardon, the llhysician that restores me, the Redeemer that delivers
me ; it is a sacrilege to divide the praise between God and ourselves.
God only can knock off our fett/ers, expel our distempers, and restore
a deformed soul to its deca fed beaut _
4. Gracious souls will bliss God az much for sanctification as for
justification( The initials of sanctification (and there are no more
in this life) are`w'ortliy of`solemn acknowledgment. It is a sign of
growth in grace when our h mns are made up Qf acknowledgments
of God’s sanctifying, as welly as pardoning grace. In blessing God

