'858 cmmsocx on rm: .u'rnmU'rns.
for the one, we rather show a love to ourselves; in blessing God for
the other, we cast outa pure beam of love to God: because, by puri-
fying grace, we are fitted to the service of our Maker, prepared to
ever good work which is deli htful to him; by the other, we are
eased' in ourselves. Pardon tide us with inward peace, but sanctifi-
cation fills us with an activity for -God. Nothing is so ca ble of
setting the soul in a heavenly tune, as the consideration of gaod as a
pardoner and as a healer.
5. Where sin is pardoned, the punishment is remitted (ver. 3, 4):
“ Who forgives all thy ini uities, and redeems thy life from destruc-
tion.” A malefactor’s arihon puts an end to his chains, frees him
from the stench of the dungeon, and fear of the gibbet. Pardon is
nothing else but the remittmg of guilt, and guilt is nothing else but
an obligation to punishment as a penal debt for sin. A creditor’s
tearin a bond frees the debtor from payment and rigor.
6. growth in grace is alwa s annexed to true sanctification. So
that “ thy youth is renewed like the eagle’s” (ver. 5). Interpreters
trouble t emselves much about the manner of the ea.gle‘s renewing
its outh, and regaining its vigor: he speaks best that saith, the
Psalmist speaks only according to the opinion of the vulgar, and his
design was not to write a natural historyni Growth always accom-
panies grace, as well as it doth nature in the body; not that it is
without its qualms and languishing Hts, as children are not, but still
their distempers make them grow. Grace is not an idle, but an ac~
tive principle. It is not like the Psalmist means it of the strength
of the body, or the prosperity and stabiliq of his government, ut
the vilgor of his grace and comfort, since t ey are spiritual blessings
here t at are the matter of his song. The healing the disease con-
duceth to the sprouting up and flourishing of the body. It is the
nature of grace to go rom strength to strength.
7. When sin is pardoned, it is rfectly pardoned, “As far as
the east is from the west, so far hatlieHe removed our transgressions
from us” (ver. 11, 12). The east and west are the atest distance
in the world; the terms can never meet together. When sin is par-
doned, it is never charged again; the guilt of it can no more return,
than east can become west, or west become east.-
8. ‘Obedience is necessary to an interest in the mercy of God.
“The mercy of the Lord is to them that fear him, to them that re-
member his commandments, to do them” (ver. 17). Commands are
to be remembered in order to practice; a vain speculation is not the
intent of the ublication of them.
After the lgsalmist had enumerated the benefits of God, he reflects
upon the catness of G-od, and considers him on his throne encom-
assed wig the angpls, the ministers of his providence. “ The Lord
hath prepared his t rone in the heavens an his kingdom rules over
all” Sver. 19). He brings in this of his dominion just after he had
large 'ly' treated of his mere . Either,
1. o signify, That Gody is not only to be praised for his mercy,
but for his majesty, both for the height and extent of his authority
2. To extol the greatness of his mercy and pity. What I have
A ll Amyrsld. in loo.

