on sorrs bommos. 859
said now, O my soul, of the mercy of God, and his paternal pity, is
commended by his ma'esty; his grandeur hinders not his clemency :
though his throne be liigh, his bowels are tender. He looks down
upon his meanest servants nom the height of his glory. Since his
majesty is infinite, his mercy must be as great as his majesty. It
must be a greater pity lodging in his breast, than what is in any
creature, since it is not damped by the greatness of his sovereignty.
3. To render his mercy more comfortable. The mercy I have
spoken of, O my soul, is not the mercy of a subject, but of a sover-
eign. An executioner may torture a criminal, and strip him of `his
life, and a vulgar ity cannot relieve him, but the clemency of the
prince can perfectlvy pardon him. It is that God who hath none
above him to control him, none below him to resist him, that hath
performed all the acts of grace to thee. If God by his supreme au~
thority pardons us, who can reverse it? If all the subjects of God
in the world should pardon us, and God withhold his ant, what
will it pront us? Take comfort, O my soul, since Go? from his
throne in the highest, and that God who rules over eve particular
of the creation, hath granted and sealed thy pardon to iliee. What
would his grace signify, if he were not a monarch, extending his
royal empire over everything, and swaying all by his sceptre?
4. To render the Psalmist s confidence more firm in any pressures.
Ver. 15, 16. He had considered the misery of man in the shortness
of his life; his lace should know him no more; he should never
return to his authority, employments, opportunities, that death would
take from him ; but, owsoever, the mercy and majesty of God were
the ground of his confidence. He draws himself from poring upon
any calamities which may assault him, to heaven, the place where
God orders all thin that are done on the earth. He is able to pro-
tect us from our dgfngers, and to deliver us from our distresses;
whatsoever miseries thou mayest lie under, O my soul, cast thy eye
uplto heaven, and see a pitying God in a majestic authority: a God
w o can perform what he hath promised tothem that fear im, since
he hath a throne above the heavens, and bears sway over all that
envy thy happiness, and would stain thy felicitgf: a God whose au-
thority cannot be curtailed and dismembered y any. When the
prophet solicits the soundin of the Divine bowels, e urgeth him
y is dwelling in heaven, 'gre habitation of his holiness( sa. lxiii.
15). His kingdom ruleth over all: there is none therefore hath any
authority to make him break his covenant, or violate his romise.
5. As an incentive to obedience. The Lord is mercifuli saith he,
to them “that remember his commandments to do them” (ver. 17,
18) : and then. brings in the text as an encouragement to observe his
precepts. He hath a majest that deserves it from us, and an au-
thority to rotect us in it. if a king in a small spot of earth is to
be obeyedb his subjects, how much more is God, who is more ma
jistic than all the angels in heaven, and monarchs on earth; who
th a majesty to exact our obedience, and a mercy to allure it!
We should not set upon the performance of any duty, Without an
eye lift/ed up to God as a great king. It would make us willing to
5§1'V€ him; the more noble the person, the more honorable and

