860 cnsmrocz oN rim .vrr1u:aU'rEs.
owerful the prince, the more glorious is his service. A view of
god upon his throne will make us think his service our privilege,
his prece ts our ornaments, and obedience to him the greatest honor
and nobiiity. It will make us weighty and serious in our perform-
ances: it would stake us down to any duty. The reason we are so
loose and uumanuerly in the carriage of our souls before God, is be-
cause we consider him not as a “great King” (Mal. i. 14). “ Our
Father, which art in heaven,” in regard of his majesty, is the preface
to ra er.
iietlils now consider the words in themselves. “The Lord hath
prepared his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all.”
he Lord hath prepared.-The word signifies “ established,” as
well as “ prepared, ’ and might so be rendered. Due preparation is
a-natural way to the establishment of a thing:`hasty reso vas break
and moulder. This notes, 1. The iniiniteness of his authority. He
prepares it, none else for him. It is a dominion that originally re-
sides in his nature, not derived from any by birth or commission ;
he alone prepared it. He is the sole cause of his own kingdom ; his
authority therefore is unbounded, as infinite as his nature: none can
set laws to him, because none but himself prepared his throne for
him. As he will not impair his own ha piness, so he will not abridge
himself of his own authority. 2. Readiness to exercise it ulpon due
occasions. He hath prepared his throne: he is not at a oss; he
needs not sta for a commission or instructions from any how to act.
He hath all things ready for the assistance of his people; he hatl:
rewards and unishments; his treasures and axes, the great marks
of authorit liying by him, the one for the good, the other for the
Wicked. His “ mercy he keeps by him for thousands" (Exod. xxxiv.
7). His “arrows” he hath prepared by him for rebels (Ps.   13).
3. Wise management of it. It is prepared; preparations imply pru-
dence; the government of God is not a ras and heady authority.
A rince upon his throne, a judge upon the bench, manages things
wi1£i the greatest discretion, or shou d be supposed so to do. 4.
Successfulness and duration of it. He hath repared or established.
It is fixed, not tottering; it is an immovaihle dominion; all the
strugglings of men and devils cannot overturn it, nor so much as
shake it. It is established above the reach of obstinate rebels; he
cannot be deposedfrom it, he cannot be mated in it. His dominion,
as himself abides forever. And as his counsel, so his authority,
shall stand, and “he will do all his pleasure” (Isa. xlvi. 10).
Es throne in the heavens.--This is an expression to signify the
authority of God; for as God hath no member properly, though he
be so represented to us, so he hath prcierly no throne. It signifies
his power of reigning and judging. throne is proper to royalty,
the seat of majesty in its excellency, and the place where the deepest
respect and hom e of subjects is aid, and t eir petitions presented.
That the throne ld? God is in the liieavens, that there he sits as Sove-
reign, is the opinion of all that acknowledge a God; when they
stand in need of his authority to assist them, their eyes are lifted u ,
and their heads stretched out to heaven; so his Son Christ prayed);
he “lifted up his eyes to heaven,” as the place where his Father sat

