' ON sons nommon. ’ 361
in majesty, as the most adorable object (John xvii. 1). Heaven hath
the title of his “ throne," as the ea.rth hath that of his “ foot-
stool” (Isa. lxvi. 1(2 And, therefore, heaven is sonietimes ut for
the authority of od (Dan. iv. 26). “After that thou shall have
known that the heavens do rule,” -i. e. that God, who hath his throne
in the heavens, orders earthly rinces and sceptres as he pleases, and
rules over the kingdoms of the world. His throne in the heavens
notes, 1. The glory of his dominion. The heavens are the most
stately and comely pieces of the creation. His majesty is there most
visible, his glory most splendid (Ps. xix. 1). The heavens s ak out
with a full mouth his lory. It is therefore called “the hahiztation”
of his “holiness and of his glory” (Isa. lxiii. 15). There is the
greater glister and brightness of his glory. The whole earth, indeed,
is full of his glory, full of the beams of it; the heaven is full of the
body of it ; as the rays of the sim reach the earth, but the full glo
of it is in the firmament. In heaven his dominion is more acknovi-li
edged by the angels standing at his beck, and by their readinessand
swittness obeying his commands, going and returning as a flash of
lightning (Ezek. i. 14). His throne may well be said to be in the
heavens, since his dominion is not disputed there by the angels that
attend him, it is on earth by the rebels that arm themselves
against him. 2. The supremacy of his empire. The heavens are
the lofties rt of the creation, and the only tit alace for him ; it is
in the heavens his majesty and dignity are so su%lime, that they are
elevated above all earthly empires. 3. Peculiarity of this dominion.
He rules in the heavens alone. There is some shadow of empire in
the world. Royalty is communicated to men as his suhstitut/es. He
hath disposed a vicarious dominion to men in his footstool, the earth;
he gives them some share in his authority; and, therefore, the title
of his name (Ps. lxxxii. 6): “I have said, ye are gods ;” but in
heaven he reigns alone wit out any substitutes; his throne is there.
He gives out his orders to the angels himself; the marks of his
immediate sovereignty are there most visible. He hath no vicars-
general of that em ire. His authority is not dele ated to any crea~
ture ; he rules the blessed spirits by himself; but is rules men that
are on his footstool by others of the same kind, men of their own
nature. 4. The vastness of his empire. The earth is but a s ot to
the heavens; what is England in a map to the whole earth, lint a
spot you may cover with your finger? much less must the whole
earth be to t e extended heavens; it is but a little point or atom to
what is visible; the sun is vastly bigger than it, and several stars
are su posed to be of a greater bulk than the earth ; and how many,
and wllat heavens are beyond, the ignorance of man cannot under-
stand. If the “throne” of God be there, it is a larger circuit he
rules in than can well be conceived. You cannot conceive the
many millions of little particles there are in the earth; and if all
ut together be but as one point to that lace where the throne of
god is seated, how vast must his empire be I He rules there over
the angels, which “ excel in strength’ those “hosts” of his “which
do his pleasure,” in comparison o whom all the men in the world,
and the power of the greatest potentates, is no more than the strength

