B62 ciunuocx ON 'ras arrmsvrss.
of an ant or ily; multitudes of them encircle his throne, and listen
to his orders without roving, and execute them without disputing.
-.And since his throne is in t e heavens, it willfollow, that all things
under the heaven are parts of his dominion ; _his throne being in
the highest (place, the inferior things of earth cannot but be subject
to him; an it necessarily includes his iniiuence on all things below:
because the heavens are the cause of all the motion in the world,
the immediate thing the earth doth naturally address to for corn,
wine, and oil, above which there is no superior but the Lord (Hoa.
ii. 21, 22): “The earth hears the corn, wine, and oil; the heavens
hear the earth, and the Lord hears the heavens.” 5. The easi-
ness of managing this gxovernment. His throne being placed on
high, he cannot but be old all things that are done below; the
height of a place gives advantage to a pure and clear eye to be-
hol things below it. Had the sun an eye, nothin could be done
in the open air out of its ken. The “throne” oig God being in
heaven, he   looks from thence upon all the children of men
gs. xiv. 2): “ he Lord looked down from heaven upon the chil-
en of men, to see if there were any that did understand.” He looks
not down from heaven as if he were in regard of his presence con-
fined there: but he looks down majestically, and by way of authori-
ty, not as the look of a bare spectator, but the look of a governor,
to pass a sentence u on them as a `udge. His being in the heavens
renders him ca ablisi of doing “wiiatsoever he pleases” (Ps. cxv. 3).
His “throne” lgeing there, he can by a word, m stopping the mo-
tions of the heavens, tum the whole earth into confusion. In this
respect, it is said, “He rides upon the heaven in thy help” (tl)eut.
xxxiii. 262; discharges his thunders upon men, and makes t e in-
fluences o it serve his people’s interest. By one turn of a cock, as
ou see in grottoes, he can cause streams from several parts of the
heavens to refresh, or ruin the world. 6. Duration of it. The
heavens are incorruptible; his throne is placed there in an incor
ruptible state. Earthl empires have their decays and dissolutions
The throne of God outiives the dissolution of the world.
His kingdom rules over all.-He hath an absolute ri ht over all
things within the circuit of heaven and earth ; though his throne be
in heaven, as the place where his lory is most eminent and visible,
his authority most exactly obeyeci et his kingdom extends itself
to the lower parts of the earth. Hia doth not muflie and cloud u
himself in heaven, or confine his sovereignty to that place, his royts
power extends to all visible, as well as invisible things: he is pro
prietor and possessor of all (Deut. x. I4): “The heaven and the
eaven of heavens is the Lord’s thy God, the earth also, with all
that is there.” He hath right to dispose of all as he pleases. He
doth not say, his kingdom rules allt at fear him, but, “over all ;"
so that it is not the kingdom of grace he here speaks of, but his
natural and universal kingdom. ver angels and men; Jews and
Gentiles; animate and inanimate things.
The Psalmist considers God here as a great monarch and general,
and all creatures as his hosts and regiéments under him, and takes
notice principally of two things. 1. T establishment of his throne

