oN GOD'S nomN1oN. 363
together with the seat of it. E: hazh prqared his throne in the heav-
ens. 2. The extent of his empire.-Hzls kingdom rules overall. This
text, in all the parts of it, is a fit basis for a discourse upon the do-
minion of God, and the observation will be this.
Doctrine.-God is soverei Lord and King, and exerciseth a. do-
minion over the whole wogd, both heaven and earth. This is so
clear, that nothing is more spoken of in Scripture. The very name,
“Lord,” imports it; a name originally belongin to gods, and from
them translated to others. 'An he is frequently called “ the Lord
of Hosts," because all the troo s and armies of s iritual and corporeal
creatures are in his hands, and at his service: this is.one of his rin~
cipal titles. And the angels are called his “hosts” (ver. 21, follow-
ing the text) his camp and militia: but more plainly $1 Kings,
xxii. 19), God is presented upon his throne, encompasse with all
the “ hosts of heaven” standing on his right hand and on his left,
which can be understood of no other than the angels, that wait for
the commands of their Soverei , and stand about, not to counsel
him, but to receive his orders. %he sun, moon, and stars, are called
his “ hosts” (Deut. iv. 19); appointed by him for the government of
inferior things: he hath an absolute authority over the eatest and
the least creatures; over those that are most readfhl, andrthose that
are most beneficial; over the good angels that willingly obey him
over the evil angels that seem most inca able of government. And
as he is thus “ Lord of hosts,” he is the “lliin of glory,” ora glorious
King (Ps. xxiv. 10). You find him called a “great King," the
“ Most High" (Ps. xcii. 1), the Supreme Monarch, there being no
di ity in heaven or earth but what is dim before him, and intinitel
inianrior to him; yea, he hath the title of “Only King” (1 Tim. vi. 15;
The title of royalty truly and properly only belongs to him: you
may see it described vepy magnificent y by David, at the free-will
oiferin for the building o the temple (10 ron. xxix. 11, 12): “ Thine,
O Lori is the greatness, and the power, and the glopdy, and the vic-
tory, and the majesty; thine is t e kingdom, O Go , and thou art
exalted as Head above all: both riches and honor come of thee, and
thou rei nest over all; and in th hand is power and might; and in
thy hand it is to make great, andy to give strength to all. He hath
an eminency of power or authority above all: all earthlly princes
received their diadems from him, yea, even those that wil not ac-
knowledge him, and he hath a more absolute power over them than
they wan challen e over their meanest vawals: as God hath a knowl-
edge infiniteli aibove our knowledge, so he hath a dominion incom-
rehensibly a ove any dominion of man; and, by all the shadows
drawn from the authority of one man over another, we can have but
weak glimmerings of the authority and dominion of God.
There is a threefold dominion of God. 1. Natural, which is abso~
lute over all creatures, and is founded in the nature of God as Crea-
tor. 2. Spiritual, or gracious, which is a dominion over his church
as redeemed rmrl founded in the covenant of grace. 3. A glorious
kingdom, at the winding up of all, wherein he shall reign over all,
either in the glqry of his mercy, as over the glorified saints, or in the
glory of his justice, in the condemned d€V1]8 and men. The first

