864 cnaaivocx ON 'ms A’I'I’RIBUTES.
dominion is founded in nat\u'e; the second in gmc; the third in ro
gard of the blessed in grace; in re ard of the mned, in demvrit in
them, and justice in him. He is diord of all things, and alwavsin
regard of propriety (Ps. xxiv. 1); “The earth is the Lord’s, andthe
fulness thereof; the world, and all that dwell therein.” The earth,
with the riches and treasures in the bowels of it; the habitable world,
with everything that moves upon it, are his; he hath the sole right,
and what right soever an others have is derived from him. In re-
gard also of possession (gen. xiv. 22): "The Most High God, posi
sessor of heaven and earth :" in respect of whom, man is not the
pippiietary nor possessor, but usufruetuary at the will of this grand
I'
In the prosecution of this, I. I shall lay down some general prop-
ositions for the clearing and eonfirmin it. II. I shall show wherein
this right of dominion is founded. III. What the nature of it is.
IV. \Vherein it consists; and how it is manifested.
' I. Some general pro ositions for the clearin and confirming of it.
1. We must know the difference between the might or power of
God and his authority. We' commonly mean by the ower of God
the strength of God, whereby he is able to effect all liis purposes;
by the authority of God, we mean the right he hath to act w iat he
senses: omnipotence is his physical power, whereby he is able to
o what he wi l; dominion is his mora power, whereby it is lawful
for him to do what he will. Among men, strength and authority
are two distinct things; a. subject may be a giant, and be stronger
than his rince, but he hath not the same authority as his prince:
worldly dhminion may be seated, not in a brawny arm, but a sickly
and infirm body. As knowledge and wisdom are distinguished;
knowledge respects the matter, being, and natiu°c of a thing; wisdom
respects the harmony, order, and actual usefulness of a thing; knowl-
edge seareheth the nature of a thing, and wisdom employs that thing
to its proper use: a man may have much knowledge, and little wis-
dom; so a man may have much strength, and little or no authority;
a greater strength may be settled in the servant, but a greater au
thority resides in the master; strength is the natural vi or of a man:
God hath an infinite strength, he ath a strength to Iiring to pw
whatsover he decrees; he acts without fainting and weaknem (Isa.
xl. 28), and impairs not his strength by the exercise of it: as God is
Lord, he hath a right to enact; as he is almighty, he hath a power
to execute; his strength is the executive power belonging to his
dominion: in regard of his sovereignty, he hath a right to command
all creatures; in regard of his almightiness, he hath wer to make
his commands be obeyed, or to punish men for the viohition of them:
his power is that whereby he subdues all creatures under him; his
dominion is that whereby he hath a right to subdue all creature!
under him. This dominion is a right of making what he pleases,
of possessing what he made, of disposing of what he doth pomess;
whereas his power is an ability to make what he hath a right to
create, to ho d what he doth possess, and to execute the manner
wherein he resolves to dispose of his creatures. _
2. All the other attributes of God refer to this perfection of domi-

