ON G-0D‘S DOMINION. 865
nion. They all bespeak him tit for it, and are discovered in the
exercise of it (which hath been manifested in the discourses of those
attributes we have passed througlh hitherto). His goodness fits him
for it, because he can never use is authority but for the good of the
creatures, and conducting them to their true end: his wisdom can
never be mistaken in the exercise of it; his power can accomplish
the decrees that flow from his absolute authority. What can be
more rightful than the placing authority in such an infinite Good-
ness, that hath bowels to pity, as well as a. sceptre to sway his sub-
jects? that hath a mind to contrive, and a will to regulate his con-
trivances for his own glory and his creatures' good, and an arm of
power to bring to pass w at he orders? Without this dominion,
some perfections, as justice and merc , would lie in obscurity, and
much of his wisdom would be shroudiled from our sight and knowl
ed e.
§. This of dominion, as well as that of power, hath been acknowl
edged by all. The high priest was to “waive the oifering," or shake
it to and fro (Exod. xxix. 24), which the Jews say was customarily
from east to west, and from north to south, the four quarters of the
world, to signify God’s sovereignty over all the parts of the world;
and some of the heathens, in their adorations, turned their bodies to
all quarters, to signify the extensive dominion of God throughout
the whole earth. That dominion did of right pertain to the Deity,
was confessed by the heathen in the name “ Baal,” given to their
idols, which signifies Lord; and was not a name of one idol, adored
for a. god, but common to all the eastern idols. God hath inter~
woven the notion of his sovereignty in the nature and constitution
of man, in the noblest and most inward acts of his soul, in that fac-
ulty or act which is most necessary for him, in his converse in this
world, either with God or man: it is stam ed upon the consicence
of man, and flashes in his face in every act oflbelf-j udgment conscience
passes upon a man: every reflection of conscience implies an obliga~
tion of man to some law “written in his heart” (Rom.   15). This
law cannot be without a legislator, nor this legislator without a sove-
reign dominion; these are but natural and easy consequences in the
mind of man from every act of conscience. 'l‘ e indelible authority
of conscience in man, in the whole exercise of it, bears a respect to
the sovereignty of God, clearly proclaims not only a supreme Being,
but a supreme Governor, and points man directly to it, that a man
may as soon deny his having such a reflecting principle within him,
as deny God’s dominion over him, and consequently over the whole
World of rational creatures.
4. This notion of sovereignty is inseparable from the notion of a
God. To acknowledge the existence o a God, and to acknowledge
him a rewarder, are linked together (Heb. xi. 6). To acknowledge
him a rewarder, is to acknowledge him a governor; rewards being
the marks of dominion. The very name of God includes in it a
supremacy and an actual rule. He cannot be conceived as God, but
he must be conceived as the highest authority in the world. It is as
possible for him not to be God as not to be supreme. Wherein can
the exercise of his excellencies be apparent, but in his soverign rule?

