866 CHARNOCK ON TEE A'1'I'R1BUT`ES.
To fancy an ininite power without a sulpreme dominion, is to fag?
a mighty senseless statue, fit to be behe d, but not fit to be obey ;
as not being able or havin no right to give out orders, or not caring
for the exercise of it. Gong cannot be supposed to be the chief being,
but he must be supposed to give laws to all, and receive laws from
none. And if we suppose him with a perfection of justice and right-
eousness (which we must do, unless we would make a lame and im-
perfect God) we must suppose him to have an entire dominion, with-
'Jut\which he could never be able to manifest his Lustice. And
without a supreme dominion he could not manifest t e supremacy
and infiniteness of his righteousness.
(L) We cannot suppose God a Creator, without supposing a
sovereign dominion in him. No creature can be made wit out some
law in its nature; if it had not law, it would be created to no pur-
pose, to no regular end. It would be utterly unbecoming an innnite
Wisdom to ereatea lawless creature, a creature wholly vain; much
less can a rational creature be made without a law: if it had no law,
it were not rational: for the ver notion of a rational creature
implies reason to be a law to it, and implies an acting by rule. If
you could suppose rational creatures without a law, you might sup-
pose that they migiht blaspheme their Creator, and murder their
ellow-creatures, an commit the most abominable villanies destruc-
tive to human society, without sin; for “ where there isno law, there
is no transgression.”f But those things are accounted sins by all
mankind, aud sins against the Supreme Being: so that a dominion,
and the exercise of it, is so fast linked to God, so entirely in him, so
intrinsic in his nature, that it cannot be imagined that a rational
creature can be made by him, without a stamp and mark of that
dominion in his very nature and frame; 1t- is so inseparable
from God in his very act of creation.
. (2.) It is such a dominion as cannot be renounced by God himselfl
It is so intrinsic and connatural to him, so inlaid in the nature
>f God, that he cannot strip himself of it, nor of the exercise of it,
while any creature remains. It is reserved b him, for it could not
subsist of itself; it is governed b him, it could not else an wer im
end. It is impossible there can he a creature, which hath not God
for its Lord. Christ himself; though in regard of his Deity equal
with God, yet in regard of his created state, and assuming our nature,
was God’s servant, was governed by him in the whole of his cies,
acted according-Ito his command and directions; God calls him his
servant §Isa. x   1): and Christ, in that rophetic psalm of him,
calls Go his Lord (IIE. xvi. 2); “O my soulz thou hast said unto the
Lord, Thou art my rd.” It was impossible it should be otherwise;
justice had been so far from bein satisfied, that it had been h' hly
incensed if the order of things in time due sub`ection to God hadlgeen
broke, and his terms had not been eomdplieci withl It would be a
judgment upon the world if -God shoul give up the government to
any else, as it is when he gives “children to be princes” (Isa.   4);
i e. children in understan `ng.
(3.) It is so inseparable, that it cannot be communicated to any
I Mmnov. Colleg. Theolog. 10 Diaput. 18, pp. 6, 7, or thorcabout.

