ON GOD’B DOHINION.  
creature. No creature is able to exercise it, every creature is unable
to perform all the offices that belong to this dominion. N o creature
can impose laws upon the consciences of men: man knows not the
inlets into the soul, his pen cannot reach the inwards of man. What
laws he hath power to propose to conscience, he cannot see executed;
because every creature wants omniscience; he is not able to erccive
all those breaches of the law which may be committed at the same
time in so many cities, so many chambers. Or, sup ose an angel, in
regztrd to the hei ht of his standing, and the insuiiipciency of walls,
and darkness, and distance to obstruct his view, can behold men’s
actions, yet he cannot know the internal acts of men‘s minds and
wills, without some outward eruption andappearance of them. And
if he be ignorant of them, how can he execute his laws? If he only
understand theoutward fact without the inward thought, how can
he dispense a justice pfoportionable to the crime? he must needs be
ignorant of that whic adds the glreatest aggravation sometimes to a
sm, and inflicts a lighter punis ment upon that which receives
a deeper tincture from the inward osture of the mind, than another
fact may do, which in the outward act may appear more base and
unjust; and so while he intends righteousness, may act a degree of
injustice. Besides, no creature can inflict a due punishment for sin ;
that which is due to sin, is a loss of the vision and sight of God; but
none can deprive any of that but God himself; nor can a creature
reward anot er with etemal life, which consists in communion with
God, which none but God can bestow!
II. Wherein the dominion of God is founded.
1. On the excellency of his nature. Indeed, a bare exccllency of
nature bespeaks a fitness for government, but doth not properly con-
vey a right of government. Excellency speaks aptitude, not title:
a subject may have more wisdom than the prince, and be fitter to
hold the reins of government, but he hath not a title to royalty. A
man of large capacity and strong virtue is Ht to serve his countr in
arliament, but the election of the people conveys a title to Zim.
§'et a strain of intellectual and moral abilities eyond others, is
a foundation for dominion. And it is commonly seen that such
eminences in men, though they do not invest them with a civil author-
ity, or an authority of jurisdiction, yet they create a veneration in
the minds of men; their virtue attracts reverence, and their advice
is regarded as an oracle. Old men by their age, when stored with
more wisdom and knowledge by reason of their long experience,
acquire a kind of power over the younger in their dictates and
councils, so that they gain, by the strength of that excellenc , a real
authority in the minds of those men they converse with, andy possess
themselves of a deep respect for them. God therefore being an in-
comprehensible ocean of all perfection, and possessing infinitely all
those virtues that may lay a claim to dominion, hath the Iirst foun-
dation of it in his own nature. His incomparable and un aralleled
excellency, as well as the greatness of his work, attracts the volun-
tary worship of him as a sovereign Lord (Ps. lxxxvi. 8): “ Among
the gods, there is none like unto thee; neither are there any works
° Macoov. Colleg. Theolog. Diaput. 18, pp. 12, 18.

