368 cruinnocx ON 'rim yrrnmnrrs.
like unto thy work. All nations shall come and worshi before
thee.” Though his benets are great eng ments to our obedience
and affection, yet his infinite majesty arige perfection requires the
first place in our acknowledgements and adorations. Upon this ac-
count God claims it (Isa. xlvi. 9): “I am God, and there is none
like me; I will do all my pleasure :” and the ro het Jeremiah ulpon
the same account acknowledgeth it (Jer. x. dl 5: “Forasmuc as
there is none like unto thee, O Lord, thou art great, and thy name
is great in might: who would not fear thee, O King of nations) for
to thee doth it appertain: forasmuch as there is none like unto
thee.” And this is a more noble title of dominion, it being an un-
created title, and more erriinent than that of creation or preservation.
This is the natiual order God hath laced in his creatires, that the
more excellent should rule the iniiariori He committed not the
government of lower creatures t/o lions and tigers, that have a delight
in blood, but no knowledge of virtue; but to man, who had an emi-
nence in his nature above other creatures, and was ibrmed with a
perfect rectitude, and a height of reason to guide the reins over them.
n man, the soul being of a more sublime nature, is set of right to
rule over the body ; the mind, the most excellent faculty of the soul,
to rule over the other powers of it: and wisdom, the most excellent
habit of the mind, to guide and regulate that tin its determinations;
and when the body and sensitive appetite control the soul and mind.,
it is an usurpation against nature, not a. rule according to nature.
The excellency, thereof; of the Divine nature is the natural founda-
tion for his dominion. He hath wisdom to know what is fit for him
to do, and an immutable righteousness whereby he cannot do any
thing base and unworthy: he hath a foreknowledge whereby he is
able to order all things to answer his own glorious designs and the
end of his government, that nothing can go awry, nothing put him
to a stand, and constrain him to meditate new counsels. So that
if it could be supposed that the world had not been created by hi
that the parts of it had met together by chance, and been compact;
into such a body, none but God, the supreme and most excellent
Being in the world, could have merited, and deservedly challenged
the government of it; because nothing had an excellency of nature
to capacitate it for it, as he hath, or to enter into a contest with him
for a sufficiency to govern.“ '
I2. It is founded in his act of creation. He is the sovereign Lord,
as he is the “almighty Creator. The relation of an entire Creator in-
duceth the relation of an absolute Lord; he that `ves being,
motion, that is the sole cause of the being of a thing, which was be
fore nothing, that hath nothing to concur with him, nothing to as-
sist him, but by his sole power commands it to stand up into being,
is the unquestionable Lord and pro rietor of that thing that hath no
dependence but upon him; and Ly this act of creation, which
extended to all things, he became universal Sovereign over all things :
and those that waive the excellency of his nature as the foundation
of his government, easily acknowledge the sufficiency of it upon his
actual creation. His dominion of jurisdiction results from creation.
\ Ra) naud, Theolog. N st. p. 757. Camaro. p. 871. Amyrald, Dissert. pp- 72. 73.

