ON eon's nomnnou. 369
When God himself makes an oration in defence of 'his sovereignty
Job xxxviii), his chief arguments are drawn from creation; and
s. xcv. 3, 5), “The Lord is a great King above all gods; the sea
is his, and he made it :” and so the apostle, in his sermon to the
Athenians. As he “made the world, and all things therein,” he is
styled, “Lord of heaven and earth” (Acts xvii. 24). His dominion,
also, of property stands upon this basis: “The heavens are thine.
the eart aso is thine: as for the world, and- the fulness thereof]
thou hast founded them” (Ps. lxxxix. 11). U on this title of form-
ing Israel as a creature, or rather as a church, Ihe demands their ser-
vice to him as their Sovereign: “O Jacob and Israel, thou art my
servant, I have formed thee: thou art my servant, O Israel" (Isa.
xliv. 21). The sovereignty of God naturally ariseth from the rela-
tion of all things to himself as their entire Creator, and their natural
and inseparable dependence upon him in regard of their being and
well-being. It depends not upon the election of men; God hath a
natural dominion over us as creatures, before he hath a dominion by
consent over us as converts: as soon as ever anything began to be a
creature, it was a vassal to God, as a Lord. Every man is acknow-
ledged to have a right of possessing what he hath made, and a power
of dominion over what he hath framed: he mav either cherish his
own work, or dash it in ieces; he may either add a greater come-
liness to it, or deface what he hath already imparted. He hath a
right of prgperty in it: no other man can, without injury, pilfer his
own work rom him. The work hath no pro riety in itself ; the
right must lie in the immediate framcr, or in the person that em-
ployed him. The first cause of everything hath an unquestionable
ominion of propriety in it upon the score of justice. B the law
of nations, the iirst finder of a country is esteemed the rightful pos-
sessor and lord of that country, and the first inventor of an art hath
a right of exercising it. If a man hath a just claim of dominion over
that thing whose materials were not of his framing, but from only
the addition of a new figure from his skill ; as a limner over ,his pic-
ture, the cloth whereof he never made, nor the colors wherewith he
draws it were never endued by him with their distinct qualities, but
only he applies them by his art, to compose such a figure; much
more hat God a rightful claim of dominion over his creatu
whose entire being, both in matter and form, and every particleri?
their excellency, was breathed out by the word of his mouth. He
did not only give the matter a form, but bestowed upon the matter
itselfa being; it was formed b none to his hand, as the matter is
on which an artist works. He had the being of all things in his own
power, and it was at his choice whether he would impart it or no;
there can be no juster and stronger ground of a claim than this. A
man hath a right to a piece of .brass or gold by his purchase, but
when by his engraving he hath formed it into an excellent statue,
there results an increase of his right upon the account of his artifice.
God’s creatior of the matter of man gave him a right over man ; but
his creation of him in so eminent an excellency, with reason to guide
him, a clear eye of understanding to discern light from darkness, and
truth from falsehood, a ‘freedom of will to act accordingly, and
vor.. u.-24

