870 cmumocx ON rms: Arrnmmrs.
an original righteousness as the varnish and beauty of all; here is
the strongest foundation for a claim of authority over man, andthe
strongest obligation on man for subjection to God. If all those
things had been ast over to God by another hand, he could not be
the supreme Lord, nor could have an absolute right to dispose of
them at his Sleasures that would have been the invasion of another’s
right. Besi es, creation is the only 'first discovery of his dominion.
Before the world was framed there was nothing but God himselli
and, proper] , nothing is said to have dominion over itself; this is a
relative attribute, reflecting on the works of God! He had a right
of dominion in his nature from eternity, but before creation he was
actually Lord only of a nullity; where there is nothing it can have
no relation; nothing is not the subject of possession nor of dominion.
There could be no exercise of this dominion without creation: what
exercise can a sovereign have without subjects? Sovereignty speaks
a relation to subjects, and none is properly a sovereign without sub-
jects. To conclude: from hence doth result God’s universal do-
minion; for being Maker of all, he is the ruler of all, and his per-
etual dominion; for as long as God continues in the relation of
greater, the right of his sovereignty as Creator cannot be abolished.
8. As God is the Hnal cause, or end of all, he is Lord of all.
The end hath a greater sovereignty in actions' than the actor itself:
the actor hath a sovereignty over others in action, but the end for
which any one works hath a sovereignty over the agent himself: a
limner hath a sovereignty over the picture he is framing, or hath
framed, but the end for which he framed it, either his profit he de-
signed from it, or the honor and credit of skill he aimed at in it,
hath a dominion over the limner himself: the end moves and ex-
cites the artist to work; it spirits him in it, conducts him in his
whole business, possesses his mind, and sits triumphant in him in all
the progress of is work; it is the first cause ibr which the whole
wor is wrought! Now God, in his actual creation of all, is the
sovereign end of all; “for thy pleasure they are and were created”
(Rev. iv. 11) ; “ The Lord hath made all things for himself” (Prov.
xvi. 4). Man, indeed, is the subordinate and immediate end of the
lower creation, and therefore had the dominion over other creatures
giant/ed to him: but God being the ultimate and principal end, hath
t e sovereign and rinci al dominion; all things as much refer to
him, as the last end), as they flow from him as the 'first cause. So
that, as I said before, if the world had been compacted together by
a jumbling chance, without a wise hand, as some have foolishly im-
agined, none could have been an antagonist with God for the gov-
ernment of the world; but God, in regard of the excellency <f his
nature, would have been the Rector of it, unless those atoms that
had composed the world had had an abilit to govern it. Since
there cou d be no universal end of all things-but God, God only can
claim an entire right to the government of it; for thou h man _be
the end of the lower creation, yet man is not the end of himself and
his own being; he is not the end of the creation of the supreml
I Stoughton “ Righteous Maui Plea.” Serm. VI. p. 28
I Vid. Lessium de Perfect. Divin. pp. 17, 78.

