~ ON eoirs nonnnon. 371
heavens; he is not able to govern them; they are out of his ken,
and out of his reach. None fit in regard of the excellenc of na-
ture, to be the chief end of the whole world but God; and therefore
none can have a right to the dominion of it but God: in this regard
God’s dominion differs from the dominion of all earthly potentatcs.
All the subjects in creation were made for God as their end, so are
not people for rulers, but rulers made for people for their protec-
tion, and the preservation of order in societies.
4. The dominion of God is founded upon his preservation of
things. (Ps. xcv. 3, fs); “ The Lord is a great King above all ods :"
why? “In his han are all the dee places of the earth.” §Nhile
his hand holds things, his hand hatli) a dominion over them. He
that holds a stone in the air, exerciseth a dominion over its natural
inclination in hindering it from falling. The creature depends
wholly upon God in its preservation; as soon as that Divine hand
which sustains everything were withdrawn, a languishment and
swooning would be the next turn in the creature. He is called
Lord, Adonai, in regard of his sustentation of all things by his con-
tinual iniiux; the word coming of me, w_hich signifies a basis or
pillar, that suplports a building. God is the Lord of all, as he is the
sustainer of a by his power, as well as the Creator of all by his
word. The sunlhath a sovereign dominion over its own beams,
which depend upon it, so that if he withdraws himself, they all at-
tend him, and the world is left in darkness. God maintains the
vigor of all things, conducts them in their operations; so that no-
thing that they are, nothing that they have, but is owing to his pre-
serving power., The Master of this great family ma as well be cal1~
ed the Lord of it, since every member of it depends upon him for
the support of that being he first gave them, and holds of his em-
pire. As the right to govem resu ted from creation, so it is perpet-
uated by the preservation of things,
5. The dominion of God is strengthened by the innumerable
benefits he bestows upon his creatures: the benefits he confers upon
us after creation, are not the original ground of his dominion. A
man hath not authority over his servant from the kindness he shows
to him, but his authority commenceth before any act 'of kindness,
and is founded upon a right of purchase, conquest, or compact.
Dominion doth not depend upon mere benefits; then inferiors
might have dominions over superiors. A peasant may save the life
(of a prince to whom he was not subject; he hath not therefore a
right to step up into his throne and give laws to him: and children
that maintain their parents in their poverty, might then acquire an
authority over them which the can never climb to; because the
benefits they confer cannot paraflel the benefits the have received
from the authors of their lives. The bounties of god to us add
nothing to the intrinsic right of his natural dominion; they being
the effects of that sovereignty, as he is a rewarder and governor; as
the benefits a prince bestows upon his fhvoritc increases not that
right of authority which is inherent in the crown, but strengthens
that dominion as it stands in relation to the receiver, by increasing
the obligation of the favorite to an observance of him, not only as

