872 ciunnocx ON rss urrnmurms.
his natural prince, but his gracious benefactor. The beneficence oi
God adds, t ough not an original right of power, yet a foundation
of a stronger qpbraiding the creature, if he walks itil a violation and
forgetfulness o those benefits and pull in pieces t e links of that
ingenuous duty they call for ;, and an occasion of exercising of jus-
tice in Epunishing the delinguent, which is a part of his empire (Isa. i.
2): “ ear, O heavens, an give ear, O earth, the Lord hath spoken,
I have nourished chi dren, and they have rebelled against me.’
Thus the fundamental right as Creator is made more indisputable by
his relation as a benefactor, and more as being so after a forfeiture
of what was enjoyed by creation. The benefits of God are innumer-
able, and so magnioent that they cannot meet with any compensa-
tion from the creature; and, therefore, do necessarily require a sub-
mission from the creature, and an acknowledgment of Divine
authority. But that benefit of redemption doth ad a stronger right
of dominion to God - since he hath not only as a Creator given them
being and life as his breatures, but _paid a price, the price of his Son’s
bloo , for their rescue from caftivity; so that he hath a sovereignty
of (grace as well as nature, an the ransomed ones belong to him as
Re eemer as well as Creator (1' Cor. vi. 19, 20): “Ye are not your
own, for ye :ge bought with a price ;’;1therefore your body and your
spirit are Go ’s. By this he acquire a right of another kind, and
bought us from that uncontrollable lordship we affected over our-
selves by the sin of Adam that he might use us as his own peculiar
far his own glory and service. By this redemption there results to
od a right over our bodies over our spirits, over our services, as
well as by creation; and to’ show the strength of this right, the
apostle re ats it, “ you are bought '" a urchase cannot be without
a price paid; but he adds price aliso, “bought with a price.” To
strengthen the title, purchase gave him a new right, and the great-
ness of the price established that right. The more a man ays for
a thing, the more usually we say, he deserves to have it, he hath
paid enough for it; it was, indeed, price enough, and too much for
such vile creatures as we are.
III. The third thing is, The nature of this dominion.
1. This dominion is independent. His throne is in the heavens;
the heavens depend not upon the earth, nor God upon his creatures.
Since he is independent in regard of his essence, he is so in his do-
minion which ows from the excellenc and fulness of his essence -
as he receives his essence from none, so ‘he derives his dominion froni
nqne; all other dominion except paternal authority is rooted origin-
al y in the. wills of men. The first title was t e consent of the
pi->‘ople, or the conquest of others by the help of those people that
t consented ; and in the exercise of it, earthly dominion depends
ulpon assistance of the subjects, and the members being joined with
t e head carry on the work of (government, and prevent civil dissen-
sions; ‘in the support of it, it egends upon the subjects’ contribu-
tions and taxes; the subjects in t eir strength are the arms, and in
their purses the sinews of government' ut God depends upon none
in the foimdation of his government; he is not a. Lord by the votes

