on eorrs Dominion. 878
of his vassals.=\ Nor is it successively handed to him by any rede-
cessor, nor constituted by the power of a superior; nor forced he his
way by war and conquest, nor Erecariously attained it by suit or
Battery, or bribing promises. e holds not the right of his empire
from any other; he hath no superior to hand him to his throne, and
settle him by commission; he is therefore called “Kin of kings,
and Lord of lords,” having none above him; “A great img above
all gods” (Ps. xcv. 8); needing no license from any when to act, nor
direction how to act, or assistance in his action; he owes not any of
those to any person; he was not ordered by any other to create, and
therefore received not orders from any other to rule over what he
hath created. He received not his ower and wisdom from another,
and therefore is not subject to any For the rule of his government.
He only made his own subjects, and from himself hath the sole
authorit ; his own will was the cause of their beings, and his own
will is tile director of their actions. He is not determined by his
creatures in any of his motions, but determines the creatures in all;
his actions are not regulated by any law without him, but by a law
within him, the law of his own nature. It is impossible he can have
any rule without himself, because there is nothing superior to him-
self, nor doth he depend upon any in the exercise of his govern-
ment; he needs no servants in it, when he uses creatures: it is not
out of want of their hel , but for the manifestation of his wisdom and
power. What he dothqayl his subjects, he can do by himself: “The
government is upon his s oulder" (Isa. ix. 6), to show that he needs
not any supporters. All other governments flow from him, all other
authorities epend upon him; ei Gratilzi, or Dei Providentvki, is in
the style of princes. As their being is derived from his power, so
their authority is but a. branch of his dominion. They are govern-
ors by Divine rovidence; God is governor by his sole nature. All
motions depend upon the first heaven, which moves all ; but that
depends upon not ing. The (government of Christ depends upon
God’s uncreated dominion, an is by commision from im; Christ
assumed not this honorto himself “But he that said unto him, Thou
art m Son,” bestowed it upon him. “ He put all things under his
feet,”l>ut not himself (1 Cor. xv. 27). “ W en he saith, All things
are put under him, he is excepted, which did put all things under
him.” He sits still as an independent governor upon his throne.
2. This dominion is absolute. If his throne be in the heavens,
there is nothing to control him. If he be independent, he must
needs be absolute; since he hath no cause in conjunction with him
as Creator, that can share with him in his right, or restrain him in
the disposal of his creature. His authority is unlimited ; in this re-
ard the title of “Lord” becomes not any but God properly. Ti-
ierius, though none of the best, though one of the subtilest princes,
accounted the title of “Lord” a reproach to him : since he was not
absolute."°
lst. Absolute in regard of freedom and liberty. (1 .) Thus creation
is a work of his mere sovereign ty; he created, because it was his pleaf
' Raynaud, Theulog. Natural, pp. [60-762.
° Sueton. de Tiberio. cap. 27.

