374 cmmrocx oN rm: xrrnrsurns.
sure to create (Rev. iv. 11). He is not necessitated to dothis or that
He might have chosen whether-he would have framed an earth and
heavens, and laid the foundations of his chambers in the waters. He
was under no obligation to reduce things from nullity to existence,
(2.) Preservation is the fruit of his sovereignty. When he had
called the world to stand out, he might have ordered it to return
into its dark den of nothingness, ripped up every part of its founda-
tion, or have given being to many more creatures then he did. If
you consider his absolute sovereignty, why might he not have di-
vested Adam resently of those rational perfections wherewith -he
had endowed him? And mi ht he not have metamorphosed him
into some beast, and elevated some beast into a rational nature?
Why might he not have degraded an angel to a worm, and advanced
afworm to the nature _and condition of an angel? Why might he
not have revoked that grant of dominion, which he had passed to
man over all creatures? It was free to him to permit sin to enter
into the earth, or to have excluded it out of he earth, as he doth
out of heaven. (3.) Redemption is a fruit of his sovereignty. By
his absolute sovereignty he might have confirmed all the angels in
their standing by grace, and prevented the revolt of any of their
members from him; and when there was a revolt both in heaven
and earth, it was free to him tb have called out his Son to assume
the angelical, as well_ as the human, nature, or have exercised his do-
minion in the destruction of men and devils, rather than in the ne-
demption of any; he_ was under no obligation to restore either the
one or the other. (4.) May he not impose what terms he pleases?
May he not impose what laws -he pleases, and exact what he will of
his creature without promisin any rewards?.- May he not use his
own for his own honor, as we§ as men use for their credit what they
do possess by his indulgence? ' (5.) Aiiction is an act of his sover-
eignty. By this right of sovereignt , may not God take away any
man’s goods, since they were his dolyesi? As he was not indebted to
us when he bestowed them, so he cannot wrong us when he removes
them. He takes from us what is more his own than it is cms, and
was never o1u's but by his gift, and that for a time onclg, not forever.
By this r' ht he may determineour times, put a peri to our days
W en he lgleases, strip us of one -member, and lop oil' another. Man’s
being was from him, and why should he not have a sovereignty to
talgc what he had a sovereignty to give? Why should this 'seem
strange to any of us, since we ourselves exercise -an absolute domin~
ion over those things in our possession, which have sense and feel
ing, as well as over those that want it? Doth not every man think
he hath an absolute authority over the utensils of his house, over his
’hcrse, his dog, to preserve or kill him, to do what he please with
him, without rendering any other reason than, H as my own F Ma
not God do much more?- Doth not his dominion over the work o¥
his hands transcend that which a man can claim over his beast that
he never gave life unto? He that dares dispute against God’s abso-
lute right, fancies himself as much a god as his Creator: understands
not the vast diiference between the Divine nature and his own; be~
tween the sovereignty of God' and his own, -which is all the theme

