ON sons nomN1oN. 375
God himself discourseth upon in those stately cna ters (J ob. xxxviii.
xxxix.   not mentioning a word of J ob’s sin, gmt only vindicat-
ing the rig ts of his own authority. Nor doth Job, in his reply
(Job xl. 4), speak of his sin, but of is natural vileness as a creature
in the resence of his Creator. By this right, God unstops the bot-
tles of heaven in one place, and stops them in another, causin it
“ to rain upon one city, and not upon another” (Amos iv. 7); order-
ing the clouds to move to this or that quarter where he hat a mind
to be a benefactor or a judge.   Unequal dispensations are acts
of his sovereignty. By this right e is patient toward those whose
sins, by the common voice of men, deserve s edy judgments, and
gears out pain upon those that are patterns ogifirtue to the world.
y this he gives sometimes the worst of men an ocean of wealth and
honor to swim in, and reduceth an useful and exem lary grace to a
scanty poverty. By this he “rules the kingdoms ofPmen,’ and sets
a crown upon the head of the basest of men (Dan. iv. 133, while he
deposeth another that seemed to deserve a weightier di em. This
is, as he is the Lord of the ammunition of his thunders, and the trea-
sures of his bounty. (7.) He may inflict what torments he pleases.
Some say, by this right of sovereignty he may inflict what torments
he pleaseth upon an innocent person ; which, indeed, will not bear
the nature of a punishment as an effect of justice, without the su
sal of a crime; but a torment, as an effect of that sovereign right
E; hath over his creature, which is as absolute over his work as the
“ tter’s” ower is “over his own clay" (Jer. xviii. 6; Rom. ix. 21).
ltd; not the potter, after his labor, either set his “vessel” up to
adorn his house, or knock it in pieces, and fling it upon the dung-
hill; se arate it to some noble use, or condemn it to some sordid
servicelg' Is the right of God over his creatures less than that of
the potter over his vessel, since God contributed all to his creature,
but the potter never made the clay, which is the substance of the
vessel, nor the water which was necessary to make it tractable, but
only moulded the substance of it into suc a shape? The vessel that
is framed, and the potter that frames it, differ only in life: the body
of the potter, whereby he executes his authority, is of no better a
mould than the clay, the matter of his vessel. Shall he have so
absolute a power over that which is so near him, and shall -not
God over that -which is so infinitely distant from him? The “ ves-
sel,” perhaps, might plead for itself that it was once part ofthe body
of a man, and as good as the “ potter" himself -; whereas no creature
can plead it was part of God, and as good as God himself Though
there be no man in the world but deserves affliction, yet the Scrip-
ture sometimes lays aiiliction upon the score of God’s dominion,
without any respect to the sin of the afilicted person. Speaking of
a sick person (James v. 15), “ Ifhe have committed sins, they shall
be forgiven him ;” whereby is implied, that he might be struck into
sickness by God, without ag respect to a particular sin, but in a
way of trial; and that his a iction sprung not from any exercise of
Divine 'ustice, but from his absolute sovereignt ; and so, in the case
of the blind man, when the disciples asked ibr what sin it was,
" Lessius de Perfect. Divin. pp. 86, 67.

