37 6 cH.AnNocK ox rm: Arramuras.
whether for his “ own,” or his “parents sin,” he was born blind?
(John ix. 3), “Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents;” which
speaks, in itself, not against the whole current of Scnggure; but the
words import thus much, that God, in this _blindness ' m the birth,
neither respected any sin of the man’s own, nor of his Iparents, but
he did it as an absolute sovereign, to manif`est his own g ory in that
miraculous cure which was wrought by Christ. Though aillictions
do not hap en without the desert of the creature, yet some afflic-
tions may be sent without any particular respect to that desert,
merely for the manifestation of God’s glory, since the creatine was
made for God himself, and his honor, and therefore may be used in
a serviceableness to the gllory of the Creator.
2d. His dominion is a so ute in regard of imlimitedness by any
law without him. He is an absolute monarch that makes laws for
his subjects, but is not bound by any himself, nor receives any rules
and laws from his subjects, for the management of his government.
But most governments in the world are bounded b laws made by
common consent. But when kings are not limited lay the laws of
their kin doms, yet they are bounded by the law of nature, and gy
the prov§ence of God. But God is under no law without hirnse ;
his rule is within him, the rectitude-and righteousness of his own
nature; he is not under that law he hath rescribed to man. The
law was not made for a “righteous man" (Il Tim. i. 9), much less for
a righteous God. God is his own law ; his own nature is his rule,
as his own glory is his end; himself is his end, and himself is his
law. He is moved by nothing without himself; nothing hath the
dominion of a motive over him but his own will, which is his rule
for all his actions in heaven and earth. (Dan. iv. 321), “ He rules in
the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomsoever e will.” And,
(Rom. ix. 18,) “He hath mercy on whom he will have mercty ;” as
all things are wrought by him according to his own eternal i eas in
his own mind, so al is wrought by him according to the inward
motive in his own will, Whic was the manifestation of his own
honor. The greatest motives, therefore, that the best ersons have
used, when they have pleaded for au grant from (fed, was his
own glory, which would be advancedy by an answer of their pe-
tition.
Sd. His dominion is absolute in regard of supremacy and uncon-
trollablenem. None can implead hun, and cause him to render a
reason of his actions. He is the sovereign King, “ Who may say
unto him, What dost thou?" (Eccles. viii. 4.) It is an absurd thing
for any to dispute with God. altom. xi. 20), “ Who art thou, O man,
that repliest against God ?” hou, a man, a piece of dust, to argue
with a God incornprehensibly! above thy reason, about the reason of
his works! Let the potsher strive with the potsherds of the earth,
but “not with Him that fashioned them” (Isa. xlv. 9). In all the
desolations he works, he asserts his own supremacy to silence men
\Ps. xlvi. 10), “Be still, and know that I am God I’ Bev are of an
uarrelling motions in Iyour minds; it is suilicient than I am Go
that is supreme, and wi 1 not be impleaded, and censured, or word
with by any creature about what I do. He is not bound to renders

