ON cons noxnN1oN. 377
reason of any of his proceedings. Subjects are accountable to their
princes, and princes to God, God to none; since ne is notlimited by
any superior, his prerogative is supreme.
4th. His dominion is absolute in regard of irresistibleness. Other
governments are bounded by law; so that what a governor hath
strength to do, he hath not a right to do; other governors have a
limited ability, that what they have a right to do, they have not al
ways a strength to do; they may want a power to execute their own
counsels. But God is destitute of neither; he hath an infinite right,
and an infinite strength ; his word is a law; he commands things to
stand out of nothin , and they do so. “ He commanded,” or spake,
6 eindn, “light to sliine out of darkness” (2 Cor. iv. 6). There is
no distance of time between his word: “Let there be light; and
there was light" (Gen. i. 3). 'Magistrates often use not their author-
ity, for fear of giving occasion to insurrections, which may overturn
their empire. ut i the Lord will work, “ who shall let it?" (Isa.
xliii. 19): and if God will not work, who shall force him? He can
check and overturn all other powers; his decrees cannot be stopped,
nor his hand held back by any: if he wills to dash the whole world
in pieces, no creature can maintain its being against his order. He
sets the ordinances of the heavens, and the dominion thereof in the
earth; and sends lightnings, that they may go, and say unto him,
“Here we are Job. xxxviii. 33, 34 . i
3. Yet this drgminion, though it bd absolute, is not tyrannical, but
it is managed by the rules of wisdom, righteousness, and goodness.
If his throne be in the heavens, it is pure and good: because the
heavens are the purest plarts of the creation, and influence by their
goodness the lower eart . Since he is his own rule, and his nature
is infinitely wise, holy, and righteous, he cannot do athing but what
is unquestionably agreeable with wisdom, justice, and purity. In all
the exercises of his sovereign right, he is never unatten ed with
those perfections of his nature. Might not God, by his absolute
power, have pardoned menls guilt, and thrown the invading sin out
of his creatures? but in regard of his truth pawned in his threaten-
ing, and in regard of his justice, which demanded satisfaction, he
would not. Might not God, by his absolute sovereignt , admit a
man into his friendship, without giving him any grace? but in re-
gard of the incongruity of such an act to his wisdom and holiness,
e will not. May he not, b his absolute power, refuse to accept a
man that desires to please him, and re'ect a purely innocent crea-
ture? but in regard of his goodness and righteousness, he will not.
Though innocence be amiable in its own nature, yet it is not neces-
sary in regard of God’s sovereignty, that he should love it; but in
regard of his (goodness it is necessary, and he will never do other-
wise. As Go never acts to the utmost of his power, so he never
exerts the utmost of his sovereignty: because it would be inconsist-
ent with those other roperties which render him _perfectly adora-
ble to the creature. is no intelligent creature, neither angel nor
man, can be framed without a law in his nature, so we cannot imag-
ine God without a law in his own nature, unless we would fancy
him a rude, tyrannical, foolish being, that hath nothing of holiness

