878 cimnrocx ON rm: arramcrm.
goodness, righteousness, wisdom. If he “ made the heavens in wis-
om" (Ps. cxxxvi. 5), he made them by some rule, not by a mere
Will, but a rule within himself, not without. A wise work is never
th? resrlug ofdan absolute unguideil {;vill.h ml   msd Wh
1. is ominion is man t e e o ` om. at
nay ;.p_p;a.r to us to have no oath; ipiing than absolute sovereignty,
would found to have a depth o amazing wisdom, and accountf
able reason, were our short capacities long enough to fathom it.
When the apostle had been discoursing of the eternal counsels of
(iodj in seiziiég uplpn one map; aéd ltegting glo inother, in neglectixag
t e ews, an gat ering int e en`es,w ic appearsto usto
results onlyof an absolute dominion, yet he resolves not those amaz-
ing acts into that, without taking it for (granted that they were ov-
erned by exact wisdom, tho h beyon his ken to see and hisdine
to solmd. “O, the depth 3? the riches, both of the wisdom and
knowledge Effrod; howR1;nsearchable ar?) his judgments, and his
wa s ast n 'ng out’ m.   33 l ere are some thinrs in
mailterg of state, that maiy seem to lie acts of mere will, but if we
were actpuainted with the arcana imperii, the inward engines which
moved t em, and the ends aimed at in those undertakings, we might
find a rich vein of prudence in them, to incline us to judge other-
wise than bare arbitrary proceedings. The other attributes of ower
and goodness are more easily erceptible in the works of God) than
his wisdom. The first view oi) the creation strikes us with this sen-
tilrlpleng that the Author of dthis great fabric  mighty and benefi-
c' ; ut his wisdom lies ee er than to iscerned at the first
glance, without a dili nt inqiiiry; as at the first casting our eyes
upon the sea, we behold its motion, color, and something of its vast-
ness, but we cannot presently fathom the depth of it, an understand
those lower fountains that supply that great ocean of waters. It is
part of God’s sovereignlty, as it is of the wisest princes, that he hath
a wisdom beyond the reach of his subjects; it is not for a finite na-
ture to understand an Innnite Wisdom, nor for a foolish creature
that hath lost his understanding by the fall, to judge of the reason
of the methods of a wise Counsellor. Yet those actions that savor
most of soverei nt , present men with some glances of his wisdom.
Was it mere wig, tliat he suffered some angels to fall? But his Wis-
dom was in it for the manifestation of his justice, as it was also in
the case of Pharaoh. Was it mere will, that he suffered sin to be
committed by man? Was not his wisdom in this for the discover
of his mercy,\which never had been known without that, which
should render a creatine miserable? “He hath concluded them all in
unbelief, that he mi ht have merc u on all” Rom. xi. 32 _ Tho h
God had such an ébsolute rightftophave arinihilated this worldugaq
soon as ever he had made it, yet how had this consisted with his
wisdom, to have erected a creature after his own ima e one day, and
despised it so much the next, as to cashier it from ieing? What
wisdom had it been to make a thing onl to destroy it; to repent of
his work as soon as ever it came out of his hands, without any ooca
sion offered by the creature? If God be supposed to be Creator, he
must be supposed to have an end in creation; what end can that be

