ON eoirs nommos. 879
but himself and his own glory, the manifestation of the perfections
of his nature? What perfection could have been discovered i-n so
quick an annihilation, but that of his power in creating, and of his
soverei t in snatching away the bein of his rational creature, be-
fore it   laid the methods of acting% What wisdom to make a
world, and a reasonable creature for no use; not to raise and honor
him, but to be broken in pieces, and destroyed by liim?
(2.) His sovereignty is managed according to the rule of righteous-
ness. Worldl princes often fancy tyranny and oppression to be the
chief marks oiy sovereignty, and think their sceptres not beautiful
till died in blood, nor the throne secure till established upon slain
carcasses. But “justice and judgment” are the foundation of the
throne of God (Ps. lxxxix. 14); alluding perhaps to the sup orters
of arms and thrones, which amon princes are the figures of) lions,
emblems of courage, as Solomon iad (1 Kings, x. 19). But God
makes not so muc mi ht, as right, the su port of his. He sits on
a “ throne of holiness” Ps. xlvii. Sé As lie reigns over the heath-
ens, referring to the calhng of the entiles after the rejecting of the
Jews; the §salmist here raising the righteousness of it, as the
Apostle had the unsearcha§>le wisdom of it (Rom. xi. 33). “In all
his ways he is righteous” (Ps. cxlv. 17 ): in his ways of terror as well
as those of sweetness; in those works wherein little else but that of
his sovereignty appears to us. It is always linked with his holiness,
that he wil not o by his absolute right anything but what is con~
formable to it: since his dominion is founded upon the excellency
of his nature, he will not do anything but what is agreeable to it,
and becoming his other perfections. Thou h he be an absolute sov-
ereign, he is not an arbitrary governor; “ éhall not the Judge of all
the earth do right" (Gen. xviii. 25)? i. e. it is impossible but he should
act righteously in every punctilio of his government, since his right-
eousness capacitates him to be a judge, not a tyrant, of all the earth.
The heathen poets re resented their chief god Ju iter with Themja
or Right, sittin b   upon his throne in allphis orders. G
cannot by his aisollute sovereignty command some things, because
they are directly aglainst unchangeable righteousness; as to com-
mand a creature to ate or blaspheme the Creator, not to own him
nor praise him. It would be a manifest unrighteousness to onler the
creature not to own him, upon whom he depends both in its being
and well-being; this would be against that natural duty which is in-
dispensably due from every rational creature to God. This would
be to order him to lay aside his season, while he retains it; to dis-
own him to be the Creator, while man remains his creature. This
is repugnant to the nature of God, and the true nature of the crea-
t1u°e; or to exact anything of man, but what he had given him a
capacity, in his original nature, to erform. If any command were
above our natural power, it would be unrighteous; as to command
a man to grasp the globe of the earth, to stride over the sea, to lave
out the waters of the ocean; these thin are impossibl and become
not the righteousness and wisdom of éiid to enjoin. ¢here can be
no obligation on man to an impossibi.i@ God ad a ree dominion
over nullity before the creation; he co d call it out into the being

