880 cH.mNo<:x ON 'rmc xrrnrsurrs.
of man and beast, but he could not do alrhythin in creation foolishl ,
because of his iminite wisdom; norlco d he by the right of his ab-
solute soverei nt make man sinfu, because of his infinite 'l1I'l .
as it is §mpo§ibl§e)for hint; rat to be soviareigzfé  if gmpgssjlhile ig:
`mtoenvis eit an 's urit. tis u or o to°o
what he will, but his 'Zvill beinglbrdeged by the righteousness of his
natiure, as finfimte   hés gill, he _cannot do anyghnéghbut wh; 1s jpst;
an tnere ore in IS e mg W1 men, ou n im 1n ri ure
submitting the reasonableness and equity? of his proceedings tg the
judgment of his depraved creat1u°es, and the inward dictates of their
own conscience. “And now, O inhabitants of J erusalem, and men
of Judah, jud e, I pray* you, between me and my vine ard” (Isa. v.
3). Though god _Ee t e great Sovereigzii of tlie w§rl<¥ yet Ee acts
not inawa ofasoute sovereignt. erues aw; eisa
“ Lawgiver”)iJs well as a “ King" (Isa): xxxiii. 22). It had been re-
pugnant to the nature of a rational creature to be ruled otherwise;
to e overned as a beast, this had been to frustrate those faculties
of wil? and understanding which had been given him. To conclude
Tlhisz when we say, God cgnddo   or tgmat, or command this or that,
is authorit is not boun e an 'mite ro rl _ Who can reason-
ably detractyfrom his almightiness, becagseplie izrannot do anything
which savors of weakness; and what detracting is it from his author-
ity, t%1atIhe cannlpt dp anytaing Iénseemly fgrhthe dilgnity of his hu;
ture t is rat er rom t e in niteness o is riff teousness t
the sltragness of his aulthprity   at most itl is but a vaoluntary boxmd-
in is ominion t e aw o is own o iness.
%3.) His sovereigiity is managed according to the rule of goodn&.
Some otentates there have been in the world, that have loved to
suck the blood, and drink the tears, of their subjects; that would
rule more by fear than love; like Clearchus, the tyrant of Heracles,
who bore the figure of g thunderbog. instead of a iceptre, and named
his son Thunder, there to tutor im to terrif is sub`ects.° But
as God’s throne is a. thrdne of holiness, so it isya “ throiie of grace”
(Heb. iv. 16), a throne encircled with a rainbow: “In sight like to
an emerald” (Rev. iv. 23): an emblem of the covenant, that hath the
gleasantness of a green color, delightful to the eye, betokcning mercy.
hough his nature be ininitely excellent above us, and his power
infinitely transcendent over us, yet the majesty of his government
is tempered with an unspeakable goodness. He acts not so much as
an absolute Lord, as a gracious Sovereign and obliging Benefactor.
He delights not to make his subjects slaves; exacts not from them
any servile and fearful, but a generous and cheerful, obedience. He
require; them ng to fear, or worship him sgl much for his ppwer, as
his oo ness. e re uires not o a ration creature an t in re-
pugiant to the honor? dignity, and principles of such a niure Enot
anything that may shame, disgrace lt, an make it Wea; of its own
being, and the service it owes to its Sovereign. He aws by the
cords of a man; his goodness renders his laws as sweet as honey or
the honey-comb to an unvitiatei palate and a renewed mind. And
though it be granted he hath a ull dispose of his zreature, as the
° Uausin. Poly-Histor. lib. iv. cap. 22.

