ON Gon's DomN1oN. 381
potter of his vessel, and might by his absolute sovereignty indict
upon an innocent an eternal torment, yet his goodness will never
permit him to use this sovereign right to the hurt of a creature that
eserves it not. If God should \cast an innocent creature into the
furnace of his wrath, who can question him? But who can think
that his goodness will do so, since that is as infinite as his authority?
As not to punish the sinner would be a denial of his justice, so to
torment an innocent would be a denial of his goodness. A man
hath an absolute power over his beast, and may take away his life,
and put him to a great deal of pain ; but that moral virtue of pity
and tenderness would not permit him to use this right, but when it
conduceth to some greater good than that can be evil; either for the
good of man, which is the end of' the creature, or for the good of
the poor beast itself; to rid him of a greater misery; none but a sav-
age nature, a disposition to be abhorred, would torture a poor beast
merely for his pleasure. It is as much against the nature of God to
punis one eternally, that hath not deserved it, as it is to deny him-
self, and act an 'thing foolishl and unbeseeminv his other perfections,
which render him majesticaly and adorable. To atilict an innocent
creature for his own good, or for the good of the world, as in the
case of the Redeemer, is so far from being against oodness, that it
is the highest testimony of his tender bowels to Sie sons of men.
God, though he be mighty, “withdraws not his eyes,” i. e. his tender
respect, “from the righteous” (Job, xxxvi. 5, 7-10). And if he
“bind them in fetters,” it is to “show them their transgressions,” and
“open their ear to discipline,” and renewing commands, in a more
sensible strain, “to depart from ini uity.” \Vhat was said of Fab-
ritius, “ You may as soon remove the sun from its course, as Fabri-
tius from his honesty,” may be of God: you may as soon dash in
pieces his throne, as separate his goodness from his sovereignty. `
4. This sovereignty is extensive over all creatures. He ru es all,
as the heavens do over the earth. He is “King of worlds, King of
ages," as the word translated “eternal” signiies (1 Tim. i. 17), wb 04
Bi-1117-ff #GW uluivwvz and the same word is so translated (Heb. i. 2)
“By whom also he made the Worlds." The same word is rendered
“ worlds” (Heb. xi. 3): “The worlds were framed by the Word of
God.” God is King of ages or worlds, of the invisible world and the
sensible; of all from the beginning of their creation, of whatsoever
is measured by ,a time. It extends over angels and devils, over
Wicked and good, over rational and irrational creatures; all things
bow dowr .xuder his hand; nothing can be exempted from him:
because there is nothing but was extracted by him from nothing into
being. All things essentially depend upon him; and, therefore,
must be essentially subject to him; the extent of his dominion tlows
from the perfection of his essence; since his essence is unlimited, his
royalty cannot be restrained. His authority is as void of any im-
perfection as his essence is; it reaches out to all points of the heaven
above, and the earth below. Other princes reign in a spot of ground.
Every worldly potentate hath the confines of his dominions. The
Pyrenean mountains divide France from Spain, and the Alps, Italy
from France. None are called kings absolutely, but kings of this or

