382 cnnmocx ON 'mn mrnmurss.
that place.” But God is the King; the spacious iirmament limit:
not his dominion; if we could suppose him bounded b any place,
in regard of his presence, yet he could never be out of   own do-
minion; whatsoever he looks upon, wheresoever he werre, would be
under his rule. Earthly kings may step out of their own country
into the territory of a neighbor prince; and as one leaves his country
so he leaves' his dominion behind him; but heaven and earth, and
BVSX particle of both, is the territory of God. “He hath prepared
his rone in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over- all."
(1.) The heaven of angels, and other excellent creatures, belong to
his authority. He is principally called “The Lord of Hosts,” in re
lation to his entire command over the an elical legions: therefore,
ver. 21, following the text, they are calledghis “ hosts,” and “ minis-
ters that do his pleasure.” Jacob called him so before (Gen. xxxii.
1, 2). When he met the angels of God, he calls them “the host of
God;” and the Evan elist, longl after, calls them so (Luke, ii. 13):
“A multitude of the lieavenly ost, praising God ;” and all this host
he commands (Isa. xlv. 12): “My hands have stretched- out the
heavens, and all their host have I commanded." He employs them
all in his service; and when he issues out his orders to them to do
this or that, he finds no resistance of his Will. And the inanimate
creatures in heaven are at his beck; they are his armies in heaven,
disfposed in an excellent order in their several ranks (Ps. cxlvii. 4):
“ e calls the stars by name ;” they render a due obedience -to him as
servants to their master, when he singles them out, “and calls them
by name,” to do- some special service; he calls them out to their
several ofiices, as the general of an arcipjyisaptpoinis the station of
every regiment in a battalia. Or “ he t em~by name,” i. a. he
iinposeth names upon them, a sign of dominion: the (giving names
to the inferior creatures being the Hrst act of Adam’s erivative do-
minion over them. These are under the soverei ty of God. '1‘he
stars, by their influences, fight against Sisera (J ugdlges, v. 20); And
the sun holds in its reins, and stands stone still, to light Jos ua to a
complete victory (Josh. x. 12). They are all mars alled in their
ranks to receive his yvord of command, and iight in close order, as
being desirous to have a share in the ruin o the enemies of their
Sovereign. And those creatures which mount up -from the earth
and take their place in the lower heavens, vapors, whereof hail and
snow are formed, are part of the arm , and do not onlyreceive, but
fulfil, his word of command (Ps. cxlviii. 8). These are his stores
and magazines of judgment against a. time of trouble, and “ a day of
battle and war” (Job, xxxviii. 22. 23). The sovereignty of God il
visible in all their motions, in their going and returning. If he says,
Go, they go-; if he say, Come, they come; if he say, do this, _they
gird up their loins, and stand stiff to their duty.
(2.) The hell of devils belong to his authority. , They have east
themselves out of the arms of his grace into the furnace of his jus-
tice; they have, by their revolt, forfeited the treasure of his good-
ness, but cannot exempt themselves from the sceptre of his dominion;
when they would not own him as a Lord Father, they-are under
him as a Lord Judge; they are cast out of his affection, but not

