ON Gon’s nommos. 883
freed  yoke. He   ovlerr thi good angels as his subjects,
over e e ' ones as his re s. W also# er relation he stands,
either as a friend or enemy, he never loses mat of 1 Lord. A prince
is the lord of his criminals as well as of his loyalest subjects. By
this right of his sovereignty, he uses them to unish some and be
the occasion of benefit to others: on the wickedmhc emplo_ys’them as
instruments of vengeance; towards the godly, as in the case of J ob,
as an instrument of kindness for the manifestation of his sincerity
against the intention of that malicious executioner. Though the
devils are the executioners of his justice, it is not by their own au-
thority, but God’s; as those that are employed either to rack or ex-
ecute a malefactor, are subjects to the prmce not only in the quality
of men, but in the execution of their function. The devil, by draw-
ing men to sin acquires no right to himself over the sinner: for
man by sin otfeiids not the devil, but God, and becomes guilty of
punishment under God.d When, therefore, the devil is used by God
§€;tt;1€ pimjshgnentdof a.r;yLit is a1ti_ act oihg BOV6l;)l;;gl1t_¥'_ for the map-
ono eorero lsjusice. n asm naionsuse e
vilest persons in oiiices of execution, so doth God those vile ipirits.
He doth not ordinarily use the good angels in those offices o ven-
geance, but in the preservation of his people. When he would solely
gmish, heemploys “evil angels” (Ps. lxxviii. 49), a troop of devils.
is sovereignty is extended over the “deceiver-and the deceived”
(Job, xii. 16); over both the malefactor and the executioner, the
devil and his prisoner. He useth the natural malice of the devils
for his own just ends, and by his sovereign authority orders them
to be the executioners of his judgments upodp their own vassals, w
well as sometimes inflicters of punishments upon his own servants.
(3.) The earth of men and other creatures elongs to his authority
(Ps. xlvii. 7). God is King of “all the earth ” and rules to the
“ends” of it (Ps. lix. 13). Ancient atheists confined God’s dominion
to the heavenly orbs, and bounded it within the circuit hof the celes-
tial sphere (Jo xxii. 14): “ He walks in the circuit of eaven " i. e.
he exerciseth his dominion only there. Pedum posdzb was the sign
of the possession of a piece of land, and the dominion of the possessor
of it; and land was resigned by such a'ceremony as now by the
delivery of a twig or tur£° But his dominion extends, ’
hslst. Over the east creatures. All the creatures of the earth are
' ted in Christs muster-roll, and make u the number of his regi-`
ments. He hath ar host on earth as wellpas in heaven (Gen.   1) '
“ The heavens and earth were finished, and all the host of them.”
And they are “ all his servants” (Ps. cxiv. 91), and move at his
pleasure. And he vouchsafes the title of his arm to the locust
caterpillar, and palmer worm (Joel, ii. 25); and descriges their motions
by military words, “climbing the walls, marching, not breaking their
{an)1<se;t(ver. 31). (Hgh hath theescpmmand,az;p1;gr1;atdgenie1;£, overlfeli;
ng ange an e mean worm ° e n s o e sma
insects he prcssetli for his service. nj this sovereignty he muszlcd
ge devouring nature of the fire to preserve the three children, and
t it loose to consume their adversaries ' and if he speaks the word,
4 Sure; V ol. ll. lib.   cap, 20. p. 786., ° Bolduc. in loc.

