884 crransoclr' ON 'mm arrnrsurns.
the stormy waves are hushed, as if they had no principle of rage
within them (Ps. lxxri 1. 9). Since the meanest creature attains its
end, and no arrow that God hath by his power shot into the world
but hits the mark he aimed at, we must conclude, that there is a
sovereign hand that governs all: not a spot of earth, or air, or water
in the world, but is his possession; not a creature in any element
but is his sub'ect. _
2cl. His dlominion extends over men. It extends over the
highest potentate, as well as the meanest peasant; the proudest
monarch is no more exempt than the most languishing beggar.
Ho lays not aside his authority to please the prince, nor strains
it up to terrify the indigent. “ He accepts not the plersons of
princes, nor regards the rich more than the lpoor; for t ey are all
the work of his hand” (Job, xxxiv. 19). oth the powers and
weaknesses, the gallantry and peasantry of the earth, stand and fall
at his pleasiue. Man, in innocence, was under his authority as his
creature; and man, in his revolt, is further under his authority
as a criminal: as a. rson is under the authority of a prince, as a
governor, While he olbiays his laws; and further under the authority
of the rince, as a judge, when he violates his laws. Man is under
Go<l’s dbminion in everything, in his settlement, in his calling, in the
ordering his very habitation (Acts, xvii. 26): “He determines the
boundsof their habitations." He never yet permitted any to be
universal monarch in the world, nor over the fourth part of it, though
several, in the pride of their heart, have designed and attempted it:
the po e, who ath bid the fairest for it in spirituals, never attained
it; and when his power was most flourishing, there were multitudes
that would never acknowledge his authority.
Sd. But especially this dominion, in the peculiarity of its extent,
is seen in the exercise of it over the spirits and earts of men.
Earthly governors have, by his indulgence, a share with him in a do-
zainion over men’s bodies, upon which account he aceth princes
and judges with the title of “ gods” (Ps. lxxxii. 6); bht the ighest
prince is but a prince “according to the flesh,” as the apostle calls
masters in relation to their servants (Col. iii. 22).
God is the sovereign; man rules over the beast in man, the body;
and God rules over the man in man, the soul. It sticks not in t e
outward surface, but pierceth to the inward marrow. It is impomible
God should be without this; if our wills were independent of him,
we were in some sort equal with himself, in part gods, as well as
creatures. It is impossible a creature, either in whole or in part, can
be exempted from it; since he is the fashioner of hearts as well as
of bodies. He is the Father of spirits, and therefore hath the right
of a paternal dominion over them. When he established man lord
ofthe other creatures, he did not strip himself of the propriety ; and
when he made man a free agent, an lord of the acts of his will, he
did not divest himself of _the sovereigpty. His sovrreignty is seen,
[1.] In gifting the s irits of men. arthly magistrates have hands
too short to inspire tihe hearts of their su jects with worthy senti-
ments: when they confer an employment, they are not able to convey
an ability with it it for the station: they may as soon frame a statue

