0N son’s nounnon. 385
of liquid water, and gild, or paint it over with the costliest colors, as
impart to any a state-head for a state-ministry. But when God
chooseth a Saul from so mean an employment as seeking of asses, he
can treasure up in him a spirit tit for government; and fire David,
in age a stréplmg, and by education a shepherd, with courage to en-
counter, an ski l to defeat, a massy Goliath. And when he designs
a person for glory, to stand before his throne, he can put a new and
a royal spirit into him (Ezek. xxxvi. 26). God only can infuse habits
into the soul, to capacitate it to act nobly and generously.
H2.] His sovereignty is seen in regard of the inclinations of men’s
wil s. No creature can immediately work upon the will, to guide it
to what ploint he pleaseth, though mediate y it may, by proposing
reasons w ich may master the understanding, and thereb determine
the will. But God bows the hearts of men, by the elliizacy of his
dominion, to what centre he pleaseth. When the more overweaning
sort of men, that thought their own heads as fit for a crown as Saul’s
scornfully despised him; yet God touched the hearts of a band of
men to follow and adhere to him (1 Sam. x. 26, 22) When the anti-
christian whore shall be ripe for destruction, Go shall “ put it into
the heart” of the ten horns or kings, “ to hate the whore, burn her
with fire, and fulfil his will” (Rev. xvii. 16, 17). He “fashions the
hearts" alike, and tunes one string to answer another, and both to
answer his own design (Ps. xxxiii. 15). And while men seem to
atify their own ambition and malice, they execute the will of God,
gf his secret touch upon their spirits, gluid¥,i§ their inclinations to
serve the glorious manifestation of trut . hile the Jews would,
in a reproachful disgrace to Christ, crucify two thieves with him, to
render him more incapable to have any followers, they accompxlished
a prophecy, and brought to light a mark of the Messiah, w ereby
he had been charactered in one of their prophets, that he should be
“ numbered amon transgressors” (Isa.   12). He can make a man
of not willing, wgling; the wills of all men are in his hand; i. e.
under the power of his sceptre, to retain or let go ulpon this or that
errand, to bend this or that way; as water is carried y pipes to what
house or place the owner of it is pleased to order. “ he king’s
heart is in the hand of the Lord, as the rivers of waters; he turns
it whithersoever he will" (Prov. xxi. 1) without any limitation. He
eaks of the heart of princes; because, in regar of their height,
ihey seem to be more absolute, andvirnpctuous as waters; yet God
holds them in his hand, under his dominion ; turns them to acts of
clemenc or severity, like waters, either to overflow and damage, or
to refresh and fructify. He can convey a spirit to them, or “ cut it
off" from them (Ps. lxxvi. 12). It is with reference to his efficacious
power, in graciousl turning the heart of Paul, that the apostle breaks
of his discourse ofy the story of his conversion, and breaks out into
a. magnifyin and glorifying of God’s dominion. “Now unto the
King eternai’ &c. “be honor and glory forever and ever" (1 Tim. i.
17). Our hearts are more subject to the Divine sovereignty than our
members in their motions are subject to our own wills. As we can
move our hand east or west to an quarter of the world, so can God
bend our wills to what mark he pleases. The second cause in every
vol.. u.-26

