il
|
1
886 CRLRNOOK ON 'mm srrnmuras.
motion depends upon the first; and that will, being a second cause,
inay be furthered or hindered inits inclinations or executions by God;
he can bend or unbend it, and change itfrom one actual inclination
to another. It is as much under his authority and power to move,
or hinder, as the vast engine of the heavens is in its motion or stand-`
ing still, which he can aifect byla word. The work depends upon
,the Workman ; the clock upon t e artificer for the motions of it.
' [3.] His dominion is seen' 'in regard of terror or comfort. The
:heart or conscience is God’s special throne on earth, which he hath
lreserved to himself, and never indulged human authority to sit upon
;it. He solely orders this in ways of conviction or comfort. He can
flash terror into men’s spirits m the midst of their earth] jollities,
iand put death into the pot of conscience, when they are boiling up
;themselves in a high pitch of worldly delights, and can raise mens
pipirits above the sense of torment under racks and Hames. ` He can
raw a hand-writing not only in the outward chamber, but the in-
ward closet; bring the rack into the inwards of a man. None can
infuse comfort when he writes bitter things, nor can any 511 the heart
with gall, when he drops in honey. Men may order outward duties,
but they cannot unlock the conscience, and constrain men to think
them duties which theylare forced, by human laws, outwardly to act:
_and as the laws of eart y (princes are bounded by the outward man,
so do their executions an punishments reach no further than the
casie ofa the body butdG~od}pan pun upon the inward man, as a giant,
an in ict woun an as es t ere.
5. It is an eternal dgrninion. In regard of the exercise of it, it
was not from eternity, because there was not from eternity any crea-
fi\1l‘8 under the government of it; but in regard of the foundation
of it, his essence. his excellency, it is eternal; as God was from
eternity al_mighty, but there was no exercise or manifestation of it till
he began to create. Men are kings only for a time; their lives ez-
pire li e a lamp, and their dominion is extinguished with their lives;
they hand their empire by succession to others, but many times it is
snapped off before they are ,cold in their graves. How are the fa-
mous empires of the Chaldeans, Medes, Persians, and Greeks, mould-
ered away, and their place knows them no more! and how are the
wings o`f the Roman ea le cut, and that em ire which oyerspread a
great part of the world, lxath lost most of its Eaathers, and is confined
to a narrower compass! The dominion of God Hourisheth from one
generation to anot er: “He sits King forever” (Ps. xxix. 10). His
“session” signifies the establishment, and “forever” the duration;
and he “sits now,” his sovereignty is asabsolute, as powerful as ever.
How many lords and plrinces hath this or that kingdom had l in how
many families hath t e sceptre lod edl when as God hath had an
uninterrupted dominion; as he hath been always the same in his
essence, he .hath been always glorious in _his sovereignty: among
men, he that is lord to-day, may be stripped of it to-morrow; the
dominions in the world vary; he that is a prince may sec his royalty
upon the wings, and feel himself laden with fetters; and a prisoner
may be “lifted from his dungeon” to a throne. But there can be no
diminution of God’s government; “ His throne is from generation

