_ ON. sons nomN1oN. _ 887
to generation” (Lam. v. 19); it cannot be shaken: his sceptre, like
Aaron’s rod, is always green; it cannot be wrested out of his hands;
none raised him to it, none therefore can depose him from it; it bears
the same s lendor in all human aifairs; he is an eternal, an ‘ immortal
King" (1 Tim. i. 17); as .he is eternally mighty, so he is eternally
sovereign ; and, being an eternal King, he is a King that gives not
a momentary and perishin , but a durable and everlasting life, to
them that obey him: a dursinle and eternal punishment to them that
resist him.
IV. Wherein this dominion and sovereign consists, and how it is
manifested. _ 1
First. The 'first act of sovereignty is the making laws. This is
essential to God; no creature’s will can be the first rule to the crea-'
ture, but only the will of God: he only can prescribe man his duty,
and establish the rule of it; hence the law is called “ the royal law”
(James, ii. 8): it being the first and clearest manifestation of sover-
eignty, as the (power of legislation is of the authority of a prince.
Both are joine to ether in Isa. liii. 22: “The Lord is our Lawgiver;
the Lord is our Kingf’ legislative power being the great mark of
royalty. God, as King, enacts his laws by his own proper authority,
and his law is adeclaration of his own sovereignt , and of men’s
moral subjection to him, and dependence on him. %is sovereignty
doth not appear so much in his promises as in his precepts: a man s
sewer over another is not discovered by promising, for a promise
oth not suppose the promiser either superior or in e1'ior to the per-
son to whom -the promise is made! It is not an exercising authority
over another, but over a man’s self; no man forceth another to the
acceptance of his promise, but only proposeth and encourageth to an
embracing of it. But commanding supposeth always an authority
in the person giving the precept; it obligeth the person to whom the
command is directed; a promise obligeth the person by whom the
promise is made. God, by his command, binds the creature; by his
promise he binds himself; he stoops below his sovereignty, to lay
obligations upon his own majesty; by a precept he binds t e creature,
by a promise he encourageth the creature to an observance of his pre-
cept: what laws God makes, man is bound, by virtue of his creation,
to observe; that respects the soverei nty of God: what promises
God makes, man is bound to believe;%>ut that respects the faithful-
ness of' God. God manifested his dominion more to the Jews than
to any other people in the world; he was their Lawgjver, both as
they were a churc 1 and a commonwealth: as a church, e gave them
ceremonial laws for the regulating their worship; as a state, he gave
them judicial laws for the ordering their civil affairs; and as both,
he gave them moral laws, upon which both the laws of the church
and state were founded. This dominion of God, in this regard, will
be,manifest,
(1.) In the supremacy of it. The sole power of making laws doth
orig§~zr:l‘_‘_' i~<~~=i'le in him (James, iv. 123; “There is one Lawgiver,
who is able to save, and to destro .” By his own law he judges of
the eternal states of men, and no law of man is obligatory, but as it
f §uarez. de Legib. p. 23.

