888 _ terunivocx ON rm; ATFRIBUTN.
is agreeable to the laws of this supreme Lawgiver, and ursuantto
his righteous rules for the government of the world. ll‘he power
that the tentates ofthe world have to make laws is but derivative
from Godlo If their dominion be from him, as it is, for “by him
kings reign” (Prov. viii. 15), their legislative power, which is a prime
flower of their sovereignty, is derived ii-om him also: and the apos-
tle resolves it into this original when he orders us to be “subject to
the higher (powers, not only for wrath, but for conscience sake” (Rom.
xiii. 5). onscience, 'in its operations, solely respects God; and
therefore, when it is exercised as the principle of obedience to the
laws of men, it is not with respect to them, singly considered., but as
the majesty of God appeals in their station and in their decrees.
This power of giving aws was acknowledged by the heathen to be
solely in God by way of original; and therefore the greatest law-
givers among the heathen pretended their laws to be received fiom
some deity or su ernatural power, b special revelation: now,
whether they did tllis seriously, acknowledging themselves this rpart
of the dominion of God,-for it is certain that whatsoever just o ers
were issued out by princes in the world, was by the secret influ-
ence of God u on their spirits éProv. viii. 15): “ By me princes de-
cree justice ;” lily the secret con uct of Divine wisdom,-or whether
they pretended it only as a. public engine, to enforce upon people
the o servance of their decrees, and gain a greater ere it to their
edicts, yet this will result from it, that the people in general enter-
tained this common notion, that God was the great Lawgiver of the
world. The first founders of their societies could never else have so
absolutely gained upon them by such a pretence. There was always
a revelation of a law from the mouth of God in every age: the ex-
hortation of Eli haz to Job (Job, xxii. 22), of receiving a “law from
the mouth” of (god, at the time before the moral law was published,
had been a. vain exhortation had there been no revelation of the
mind of God in all ages.
(2.) The dominion of God is manifest in the extent of his laws.
As he is the Governor and Sovereign of the whole world, so he en-
acts laws for the whole world. One rince cannot make laws for
another, unless he makes him his suliject by right of conquest;
Spain cannot make laws for England, or England for Spain; but God
having the supreme government, as King over all, is a Lawgiver to
all, to irrational, as well as rational creatures. The “ heavens have
their ordinances” (Job, xxxviii. 33); all creatures have a law im-
printed on their beings; rational creatures have Divine statutes
copied in their heart: for men, it is clear (Rom. ii. 14), every son of
A am, at his coming into the world, brings with him a law in his
nature, and when reason clears itself u from the clouds of sense, he
can make some difference between good and evil; discern something
of tit and just. Every man finds a law within him that checks him
if he offends it: none are without a legal indictment and a legal exe-
cutioner within them; God or none was the Author of this asa
sovereign Lord, in establishing a law in man at the same time
wherein, as an Almighty Creator, he imparted a being. This law
proceeds from God’s general power of governing, as he is the Author

