ON eoirs noimnon. 889
of nature, and binds not barely as it is the reason of man, but by the
authority of God, as it is a law engraven on his conscience: and no
doubt but a law was given to the angels; God did not govern those
intellectual creatures as he doth brutes, and in a way inferior to his
rule of man._ Some sinned; all might have sinned in regard to the
changeableness of their nature. Sin cannot be but against some
rule; “ where there is no law, there is no transgression; ’ what that
law was is not revealed; but certainl it must be the same in part
with the moral law, so far as it agreedywith their spiritual natures;
a love to God, a worship of him, and a love to one another in their
societies and persons.
(3.) The dominion of God is manifest in the reason of some laws,
which seem to be nothing else than purely his own will. Some
laws there are for which a reason may be rendered from the nature
of the thing enjoined, as to love, honor, and worship God: for others,
none but this, God will have it so: such was that positive law to Adam
of “ not eating of the tree of knowledge of good and evil” (Gen.
ii. 17), which was merely an assertin his own dominion, and was
different from that law of nature God grad written in his heart. No
other reason of this seems to us, but a resolve to try man’s obedience
in a way of absolute sovereignty, and to manifest his right over all
creatures, to reserve what he pleased to himself, and permit the use
of what he pleased to man, and to signify to man that he was to de~
pend on him, who was his Lord, and not on his own will. There
was no more hurt in itself, for Adam to have eaten of' that, than of
any other in the garden; the fruit was pleasant to the eye, and good
for food; but Go would show the right he had over his own goods,
and his authority over man, to reserve what he pleases of his own
creation from his touch; and since man could not claim a propriety
in anything, he was to meddle with nothing but by the leave of his
Sovereign, either discovered by a special or general license. Thus
God showed himself the Lor of man, and that man was but his
steward, to act by his orders. If God had forbidden man the use
of more trees in the garden, his command had been just; since, as a
sovereign Lord, he might dispose of his own goods; and when he
had granted him the whole compass of that pleasant garden, and the
whole world round about for him and his posterity, it was a more
tolerable exercise of his dominion to reserve this “one tree,” as a
mark of his sovereignty, when he had left “all others” to the use of
Adam. He reserved nothing to himself, as Lord ofthe manor, but
this; and Adam was prohibited nothing else but this one, as a sign
of his subjection. Now for this no reason can be rendered by any
man but merely the will of God; this was merely a fruit of his do-
minion. For the moral laws a reason may be rendered; to love
God hath reason to enforce it besides God’s will; viz., the excellency
of his nature, and the greatness and multitudes of' his benefits. To
love our neighbor hath enforcing reasons; mb., the conjunction in
blood, the preservation of human society, and the need we may
stand in of their love ourselves: but no reason can be assigned of
this positive command about the tree of knowledge of good and evil,
but the pleasure of God. It was a branch of his pure dominion to

