890 cnsnnocx ON ras sfrrsmurss.
but merely the pleasure of God. It was a branch of his pure dominion
to try man’s obedience, and a mark of his goodness to try it by so
and light a recept, when he might have extended his authority
further. Had not God given this or the like order, his absolute
dominion had not been so conspicuous. It is true, Adam had a law
of nature in him, whereby he was obliged to pe ctual obedience;
and though it was a part of God’s dominion to implant it in him, yet
his sutpreme dominion over the creatures had not been so visible to
man ut by this, or a precept of the same kind. What was com-
manded or prohibited by the law of nature, did bespeak a comeliness
in itself, it a peared good or evil to the reason of man; but this was
neither good) nor evil in itself, it received its sole authority from the
absolute will of God, and nothing could result from the fruit itselg,
as a reason wh man shouldnot taste it, but only the sole will o
God. Amd as (Ziod’s dominion was most conspicuous in this precept,
so man’s obedience had been most eminent in observing it: for in
his obedience to it, nothing but the sole power and authority of God,
which is the proper rule of obedience, could have been respected, not
any reason from the thing itselfl To this we may refer some other
commands, as that of appointin the time of solemn and public wor-
ship, the seventh day; though die worship of God be a part of the
law of natiue, yet the appointing a articular' day, wherein he would
be more formally and solemnly acknowledged than on other days,
was grounded upon his absolute right of le islation: for there was
nothing in the time itself that could render that day more holy than
another, though God respected his “finishing the work of creation"
in his institution of that da (Gen. ii. 3). Such were the ceremonial
eommaxids of sacrifices and' washings under the law, and the com-
mands of sacraments under' the gospel: the one to last till the first
coming of Christ and his passion; the other to last till the second
comin of Christ and his triumph. Thus he made natural and im-
avoidaile uncleannesses to be sms, and the touching a dead body to
be pollution, which in their own nature were not so.
(4.) The dominion of God appears in the moral law, and his
majesty in publishing it. As the law of nature was writ by his own
fingers in t e nature of man, so it was engraven by his own Hnger
in the “tables of stone” (Exod. xxxi. 18), which is ver emphatic-
ally expressed to be a mar of God’s dominion. “ Andv the tables
were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God en-
graven upon the tables” (Exod. xxxii. 16); and when the first tables
were bro en, though he orders Moses to frame the tables, yet the
writing of the law he reserves to himself (Exod. xxxiv. 1). It is
not said of any part of the Scripture, that it was writ by the Hager
of God, but only of the De ogue: herein he would have his sov-
ereignty eminently appear; it was published by God in state, with
a numerous atten ance of his heavenly militia ( eut.   2); and
the artillery of heaven was shot off at the solemnity; and therefore
it is called a fiery law, coming from his right hand, i. c. his sovereign
power. It was published with all the marks of supreme majest§
(5.)1 The dominion of God appears in the obligation of the w,
whic reacheth the conscience. he laws of every prince are Bram

