on sons nommon. 891
ed for the outward conditions of men; they do not by their author-
ity bind the conscience; and what obligations do result from them
upon the conscience, is either from their being the same immediately
with Divine laws, or as they are accordin to the just power of the
magistrate, founded on the law of God. éonscience hath a rotec-
tion from the King of kings, and cannot be arrested by any human
power. God hath given man but an authority over half the man,
and the worst half too, that which is of an earthly original ; but re-
served the authority over the better and more heavenly half to him-
self The dominion of earthly princes extends only to the bodies of
men; they have no authority over the soul, their punishment and
rewards cannot reach it: and therefore their laws, by their single
authority, cannot bind it, but as they are coincident with the law of
God, or as the equity of them is subservient to the preservation of
human society, a regular and ri hteous thing, which is the divine
end in government; and so theyiind, as they have relation to God
as the supreme magistrate. The conscience is only intelligible to
God in its secret motions, and therefore only guidable by God; God
only pierceth into the conscience by his eye, and therefore only can
conduct it by his rule. Man cannot tell whether we embrace this
law in our heart and consciences, or only in appearance; “He only
can judge it” (Luke xii. 3, 4), and therefore he only can impose
laws upon it; it is out of the reach of human penal authority, if
their laws be transgressed inwardly by it. Conscience is a book in
some sort as sacred as the Scripture; no addition can be lawfully
made to it, no subtraction from it. Men cannot diminish the duty
of conscience, or raze out the law God hath stamped upon it. The
cannot put a supersedeas to the writ of conscience, or stop its mouth
with a noli osequi. They can make no addition by their authority
to bind it, it s a flower in the crown of Divine sovereignty org?
2. His sovereignty appears in a power of dispensing with hi wn
laws. It is as much a part of his dominion to dispense with his
laws, as to enjoin them; he only hath the ptower of relaxing his
own right, no creature hath power to do it; t at would be to usurp
a superiority over him, and order above God himself Re ealing or
dispensing with the law is a branch of royal authority. Kit is true,
God will never dispense with those moral laws which have an eter-
nal reason in themselves and their own nature; as for a creature `to
fear, love, and honor God; this would be to dispense with his own
holiness, and the righteousness of his nature, to sully the purity of
his own dominion; it would write` folly upon the ,Hrst creation of
man after the image of God, by writing rnutability upon himself; in
framing himself after the corrupted image of man; it would null
and frustrate the excellency of the creature, wherein the image of
God mostly shines; nay, it would be to dispense with a creature’s
being a Creator, and make him independent upon the Sovereign of
the world in moral obedience. But God hath a right to dispense
with the ordinary laws of nature in' the inferior creatures; he hath
a power to alter their course by an arrest of miracles, and make
them come short, or go beyond his ordinances established for them.
He hath a right to make the sun stand still, or move backward; to
, _

