892 omimocx ON 'run ATTRIBUTES.
bind up the womb of the earth, and bar the influences of the clouds
bridle in the rage of the fire, and the f\1ry of lions; make the liquid
waters stand like a wall, or pull up the dam, which he hath set to
the sea, and command it to overflow the neighboring countries: he
can dispense with the natural laws of the whole creation, and strain
everything beyond its ordinary pitch. Positive laws he hath revers-
ed; as the ceremonial law given to the Jews. The very nature, in-
deed, of that law re uired a repeal, and fell of course; when that
which was intendedcby it was come, it was of no lon er significancy;
as before it was a useful shadow, it would afterwards have been an
em t one: had not God took away this, Christianity had not, in
all ligelihood, been propagated among the Gentiles. This was the
“ partition wall between Jews and Gentiles” §Eph. xii. 14); which
made them a distinct family from all the worl , and was the 0608.-
sion of the enmity of the Gentiles against the Jews. When God
had, by bringing in what was signified by those rites, declared his
decree for the ceasing of them; and when the Jews, fond of those
Divine institutions, would not allow him the right of repealing what
he had the authority of enacting; he resolved, for the asserting his
dominion, to bury them in the ruins of the temple and city, and
make them forever incapable of practising the main and essential
parts of them; for the temple being the pillar of the legal service,
y demolishing that, God hath taken away their rights of sacrificing,
it being peculiarl annexed to that place; they have no altar digni-
fied with a fire fiom heaven to consume their sacriiices, no legal
high-priest to offer them. God hath by his rovidence changed is
own law as well as by his recept; yea, he hath) gone higher, by virtue
of his sovereignty, and changed the whole scene and methods of his
gpvernment after the fall, rom King Creator to King Redeemer.
e hath revoked the law of works as a covenant; released the
Eenalty of it from the believing sinner, by transferring it u(pon the
t urety, who interposed himself by his own will and Divine esigna-
tion. He hath established another covenant upon other promises
in a higher root, with greater privileges, and easier terms. Had
not God had this right of sovereignty, not a man of Adam’s pos-
terity could have been blessed; he and the must have lain groan-
ing under the misery of the fall, which had? rendered both hunself
and all in his loins unable to observe the terms of the Hrst covenant.
He hath, as some gneak, dispensed with his own moral law in some
cases; in comman g Abraham to sacrifice his son, his only son,
a righteous son, a son whereof he had the promise, that “in Isaac
should his seed be called ;” yet he was commanded to sacrifice bin'
by the right of his absolute  overs' nty as the supreme Lord of the
lives of his creatures, from the higlhest angel to the lowest worm.,
whereby he bound his subjects to this law, not himself Our lives
are due to him when he calls for them, and they are a just forfeit
to him, at the very moment we sin, at the very moment we come
into the world, by reason of the venom of our nature against him,
and the disturbance the Hrst sin of man (whereof we are inheritors)
gzve to his glory. Had Abraham sacrificed his son of his own
ad, he had sinned, yea, in attempting it; but being authorized

