~ ON Gon's nomruos. 398
hom heaven, his act was obedience to the Soverei of the world,
who had a power to dis ense with his own law; andnwith this law
he had before dispensed? in the case of Ca.in’s murder of Abel, as
to the immediate unishment of it with death, which, indeed, was
settled afterwards E his authority, but then omitted because of the
paucity of men, and’ for the peo ling the world; but settled after-
wards, when there was almost, though not altogether, the like occa.~
sion of omitting it for a time.
1a3. His sovereignty appears in punishing the transgression of his
w.
(1.) This is a branch of God’s dominion as lawgiver. So was the
vengeance God would take u n the Amalekites (Exod. xvii. 16):
“The Lord hath sworn, that ge Lord will have war ;” the Hebrew
is, “ The hand upon the throne of the Lord," as in the margin: as a
“ lawgiver” he “saves or destroys” (James, iv. 12). He acts accord-
ing to his own law, in a congruit to the sanction of his own pre-
cepts; thou h he be an arbitrary lawgiver, ap inting what laws he
leases, yet Tie is not an arbitrary judge. As hz commands nothing
hut what he hath_a right to-command, so he plmisheth none but
whom he hath a right to unish, and with such punishment as the
law hath denounce . AlFhis acts of justice and milictions of curses
are the eifects of this sovereign dominion (Ps. xxix. 1021: “He sits
King upon 'the floods;” upon the deluge of waters w erewith he
drowned the world, say some. It is a right belonging to the au-
thority of magistrates to pull u the infectious weeds that corrupt a
commonwealth; it is no lem the right of God, as the lawgiver and
judge of all the earth, to subject criminals to his vengeance, after
they have rendered themselves abominable in his eyes, and carried
themselves unworthg subjects of so great and _glorious a King. The
i"i>’?“’??i.l' ’li2"i1gi§‘if§§“ ‘é‘?dk§.l`§t'25” fi§§“i§’§'f,‘Z11“.f.i°‘éa"l~“t1§‘§`5’”;
name which signiiies his power of jud ing, in the opinion of some
critics; from him it is derived to earthly magistrates; their judg-
ment is said, therefore, to be the “ `udgment of God” (Deut. i. 17).
When Christ came, he proposed this glreat motive of repentance
from theh“ kingdom of heaven b<-iingkat and ;”ftlEskingdom of lilis
,e,w ereb to invite men; t e 'n om o 'justice in t e
gruariishment oi? the neglecters of it, whereby to terrify men. Punish
ments as well as rewards belong to royalty; it issued accordingly;
those that believed and repented came under his gracious sceptre,
those that neglected and rejected it fell under his iron rod; Jerusa-
lem was destroyed, the temple demolished, the inhabitants lgst theifr
ivifslithi °§§§t§§$§f° “i\'§Lf1’t2,fm1“§?'?%ii“1§2T»9`3§h”§,ihii‘§ni}i‘2';‘Z
soverei ri ht to overn and unish delin uents, Abraham `ves
~ 3° g E E -at e
phrm, whenlhe cfarlpe to root out tGe people 035) om, and make t em
e exam es o is ven eanee en. xvm. .
(2.) Puliiishing the tragisgressions of his law. This is a necessary
branchlfofhdominion. His sovereignty in making liaws wolpld he a
triiie, ' t ere were not also an aut orit to vm 'cate t ose aws
from contempt and injury; he would be ayLord only spurned at by

