894 cniuuvocx UN 'rr-rs arrnmnrns.
rebels. Sovereignty is not preserved without justice. When the
Psalmist speaks of the majesty of God’s kingdom, he tells us, that
“righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne” (Ps.
xcvii. 1, 2). These are the engines of Divine dignity which render
him glorious and majestic. A legislative power would be trampled
on without executive; b this the reverential a prehensions of God
are preserved in the world. He is known to ge Lord of the world
“by the 'udgments which he executes” (Ps. ix. 16). When he
seems to liave lost his dominion, or given it up in' the world, he re-
covers it by punishment. When he takes some away “ with a whirl-
wind, and in his wrath," the natural consectluence men make of it, is
this: “S1u°ely there is a God that judgeth t e earth" (Ps. lviii. 9, 11).
He reduceth the creature, by the lash of his judgments, that would
not acknowledge his-authority in his recepts. 'l`hose sins which
disown his government in the heart and) conscience, as pride, inward
blasphemy, &c., he hath reserved a time hereafter to rec on for. He
doth not presently shoot his arrows into the marrow of every delin-
quent, but those sins which traduce his government of the world,
and tear up the foundations of human converse, and a public respect
to him, he reckons with particularly here, as well as hereafter, that
the life of his sovereignty might not always faint in the world.
(8.) This of ginishing was the second discovery of his dominion
in the world. is first act of sovereignt was the giving a law; the
next, his appearance in the state of a judyge. When his orders were
violated, he rescues the honor of them by an execution of justice.
He first judged the angels, punishing the evil ones for their crime :.
the first court he kept among them as a governor, was to give them
a law; the second court he kept was as a judge tr ing the delin-
3;1ents,'and ad'udging the offenders to be “reservedl in chains of
rkness" till the final execution (Jude, 6); and, at the same time
ggobabg, he confirmed the ood ones in their obedience by grace.
the rst discovery of his Hominion to man, was the giving him a
prece t, the next was the inflicting a punishment for the breach of
lt. Ile summons Adam to the bar, indiets him for his crime, finds
him guilty by his own confession, and passeth sentence on him, ac-
cording to the rule he had before acquainted him with.
(4.) The means whereby he punisheth shows his dominion.
Sometimes he musters up hail and mildew ; sometimes he sends
regiments of wild beasts ;' so he threatens Israel (Lcv. xxvi. 22),
Sometimes he sends out a party of angels to beat up the quarters of
men, and make a carnage among them (2 Kings, xix. 35). Some-
times he mounts his thxmdering battery, and shoots forth his ammu-
nition from the clouds, as against the Philistines (1 Sam. vii. 10).
Sometimes he sends the slightest creatures to shame the pride and
punish the sin of man, as “ lice, frogs, locusts," as upon the Egypt
lans (Exod. viii.--x.).
Secondly. This dominion it manifested by God as a proprietor and
Lord of his creatures and his own goods. And this is evident,
1. In the choice of some persons from eternit . He hath set
apart some from eternity, wherein he will display the invincible elli-
eacy of his grace, and thereby infallibly bring them to the fruition

