ON GOD‘S DOHINION. 395
of “glory (Eph. 1. 4, 5): “According as he hath chosen us in him be-
fore the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without
blame before him in love, having redestinated us to the adoption
of children by Jesus Christ to himsellf according to the ood pleasure
of his will.” Why doth he write some names in the “iook of life,”
and leave out others? Why doth he enrol some, whom he intends
to make denizens of heaven, and refuse to put others in his register?
The apostle tells us, it is the pleasure of his will. You may render
a reason for many of God’s actions, till you come to this, the top and
foundation of all; and under what head of reason can man reduce
this act but to that of his royal prerogative? Why doth God save
some, and condemn others at last? because of the faith of the one,
and unbelief of the other. Why do some men believe? because
God hath not only given them the means of grace, but accompanied
those means with the eiiicacy of his S irit. Why did God accom-
pany those means with the efficacy of his Spirit in some, and not in
others ? because he had decreed by grace to prepare them for glory.
But why did he decree, or choose some, and not others? Into what
will you resolve this but into his sovereign pleasure? Salvation and
condemnation at the last upshot, are acts of God as the Judge, con-
formable to his own law of giving life to believers, and infiicting
death upon unbelievers; for t ose a reason may be rendered; but
the choice of some, and preterition of others, is an act of God as he
is a sovereign monarch, before any law was ,actually transgressed,
because not actually given. When a prince redeems a rebel, he acts
as a judge according to law; but when he calls some out to ardon,
he acts as a sovereign by a prerogative above law; into this _tli)e apos-
tle resolves it (Rom. ix. 13, 15). When he speaks of God’s loving
Jacob and hating Esau, and that' before they had done either good or
evil, it is, “because God will have mercy on whom he will have
mercy, and compassion on whom he will have compassion.” '1‘hough
the first scope of the apostle, in the beginning of t e chalpter,»was to
declare the reason of God’s rejecting the Jews, and ca ing in the
Gentiles; had he only intended to demolish the pride of the Jews,
and flat their o inion of merit, and aimed no higher than that pro-
vidential act ofp God; he might, convincingl enough to the reason
of men, have argued from the justice of God: provoked b the ob-
stinacy of the Jews, and not have had recourse to his absollute will;
but, since he asserts this latter, the strength of his argument seems to
lie thus: if God by his absolute sovereignty may resolve, and fix his
love upon Jacob and estran e it from Esau, or any other of his
Creatures, before they have done good or evil, and man have no
ground to call his infinite majesty to account, may he not deal thus
with the Jews, when their demerit would be a bar to any complaints
of the creature against him ?8 If God were considered here in the
uality of a judge, it had been fit to have considered the matter of
&ct in the criminal ; but he is considered as a sovereign, rendering
no other reason of his action but his own will ; “ whom he will he
hardens” (ver. 18). And then the apostle concludes (ver. 20), “Who
art thou, O man, that repliest against God ?” If the reason drawn
4 I Amyruld, Disaert. pp. 101, 102.

