896 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
from God’s sovereignty doth not satisfy in this in uiry, no other rear
son can be found wherein to acquiesce: for theqlast condemnation
there will be sumcient reason to clear the justice of his proceedings.
But, in this case of election, no other reason but what is alleged, viz.,
the will of God, can be thought oi, but what is liable to such knotty
exce tions that cannot well be untied.
(13 It could not be any merit in the creature that might determine
God to choose him. If the decree of election falls not under the
merit of Christ’s passion, as the procuring cause, it cannot fall under
the merit of any part of the corrupted mass. The decree of sending
Christ did not precede, but followed, in orderof nature, the determi-
nation of choosing some. When men.were chosen as the subjects
for glor , Christ was chosen as the means for the bringing them to
glory (hlph. i. 4? : “ Chosen us in him, and predestinated us to the
ado tion of chi dren by Jesus Christ.” The choice was not merely
in Christ as the moving cause; that the apostle asserts to be “the
good pleasure of his will ;” but in Christ, as the means of conveying
to the chosen ones the fruits of their election. What could there be
in any man that could invite God to this act, or be a cause of dis-
tinction of one branch of Adam from another? Vi/'ere they not all
hewed out of the same rock, and tainted with the same corruption in
blood? Had it been possible to invest them with a power of merit
at the Hrst, had not that venom, contracted in their nature, de raded
all of ower for the future? What merit was there in any int of
Wrathflul punishment, since they were all considered as criminals,
and the cursed brood of an ungrateful rebel? What dignity can
there be in the nature of the purest part of clay, to be made a vessel
of honor, more than in another part of cla , as pure as that which
was formed into a vessel for mean and sordid use? What had an
one to move his mercy more than another, since they were all chili
dren of wrath, and equally daubed with ori 'nal guilt and Hlth?
Had not all an equal proportion of it to provoile his justice? What
merit is there in one dry bone more t an another, to be inspired
with the breath of a spiritual life? Did not all lie, wallowing in their
own iilthy blood? an what could the steam and noisomeness of that
deserve at the hands of a ure Majesty, but to be cast into a sink
fmthest hom his sight? Were they not all considered in this de-
plorable osture, with an equal proportion of poison in their nature,
when God first took his pen, an singled out some names to write in
the hook of life? It could not be merit in any one piece of this
abominable mass, that should stir up that resolution in God to set
apart this gprson fhr a vessel of glory, while he permitted anotherto
putrefy in is own gore. He loved Jacob, and hated Esau, though
the were both pads of the c/ommonmass, the seed of the same loins,
ancllodged in the same womb.
(2.) or could it be any foresight of works to be done in time by
them, or of faith, that might determine God to choose them. What
good could he foresee resultin from extreme corruption, and a
nature alienated from him? Wqiat could he foresee o ood to be
done by them, but what he resolved in his own will, to iestow an
ability upon them to bring forth? His choice of them was to I

