ON eon’s DOHINION. 897
holiness, not for a holiness preceding his determination (Eph. i. 4).
He hath chosen us, “ that we might be holy” before him; he ordain-
ed us “ to good works,” not for them (Epli. ii. 10). \Vhat is a fruit
cannot be a moving cause of that whereof it is a fruit: grace is a
stream from the spring of electing love; the branch is not the cause
of the root, but the root of the branch; nor the stream the cause of
the spring, but the spring the cause of the stream. Good works
suppose grace, and a good and right habit in the person, as rational
acts suppose reason. Can any man say that the rational acts man
rforrns after his creation were a cause why God created him?
ifehis would make creation, and everything else, not so much an act
of his will, as an act of his understanding. God foresaw no rational
act in man, before the act of his will to 've him reason; nor fore-
sees faith in any, before the act of his wg determining to give him
faith: “ Faith is the gift of God" (Eph. ii. 8). In the salvation
which grows up from t is first purpose of God, he regards not the
works we have done, as a principal motive to settle the top-stone of
our ha piness, but his own pur ose, and the ace `ven in Christ;
“ who liath saved us, and called) us with a hcily calilng, not accord-
ing to our own works, but according to his own 1u'pose and grace,
which was given to us in Christ, before the world) began” (2 'lim. i.
9). The honor of our salvation cannot be challenged by our works,
much less the honor of the foundation of it. It was a pure gift of
grace, without any respect to aniy spiritual, much less natural, per-
ection. \Vhy should the a ost e mention that circumstance, w men
he speaks of God’s loving Jiacob, and hating Esau, “ when neither
of them had done ood or evil” (Rom. ix. 11), if there were any fore-
sight of men’s woxgrs as the moving cause of his love or hatred?
God regarded not the works of either as the first cause of his choice,
but acted by his own liberty, without respect to an of their actions
which were to be done by them in time. If faith' be the fruit of
election, the prescience of faith doth not influence the electing act of
God. It is called “ the faith of God’s elect” (Tit. i. l): “ Paul, an
apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God’s elect ;” i. e.
settled in this office to bring the elect of God to faith. If men be
chosen b God upon the foresight of faith, or not chosen till they
have faith, they are not so much God’s elect, as God their elect;
they choose God by faith, before God chooseth them b love: it had
not been the faith of God’s elect, i. e. of those already chosen, but
the iaith of those that were to be chosen by God afterwards. Elec-
tion is the cause of faith, and not faith the cause of election ; fire is
the cause of heat, and not the heat of ire; the sun is the cause of
the day, and not the day the cause of the rising of the sun. Men
are not chosen because theiy believe, but they believe because they
are chosen: the apostle di ill, else, to appropriate that to the elect
which they had no more interest in, b virtue of their election, than
the veriest reprobate in the world.” if the foresi ht of what works
might be done by his creatures was the motive of  choosing them,
why did he not choose the devils to redemfption, who could have
ione him better service, by the strength o their nature, than the
* Daille, in loc.

