898 ciuiurocx ON 'ri-is Anmmuras.
whole mass of Ada.m’s posterity? Well, then, there is no possible
way to lay the original foundation nl this act of election and preteri-
tion in anything but the absolute sovereignty of God. Justice or in-
justice comes not into consideration in this case. There is no debt
which justice or injustice always res cts in its acting: if he had
pleased, he might have chosen all; iiplie had pleased, he mi ht have
chosen none. It was in his supreme power to have resolveg to have
left all Adam’s posterity under the rack of his justice; if he deter-
mined to snatch out any, it was a part of his dominion, but without
any injury to the creatures he leaves under their own guilt. Did he
not pass by the angels, and take man? and, by the same iight of
dominion, may he pick out some men from the common mass, and
lay aside others to ear the unishment of their crimes. Are they
not all his subjects? all are   criminals, and may be dealt with at
the pleasure of their undoubted Lord and Sovereign. This is a work
of arbitrary power; since he might have chosen none, or chosen all,
as he saw good himself It is at the liberty of the artificer to deter-
mine his wood or stone to such a figure, that of a prince, or that of
a toad; and his materials have no right to complain of him, since it
lies wholly u n his own liberty. They must have little sense of
their own vileiiiess, and God’s infinite excellency above them by
right of creation, that will contend that God hath a lesser right over
his creatures than an artificer over his wood or stone. If it were at
his liberty whether to redeem man, or send Christ upon such an un~
dertaking, it is as much at his liberty, and the prerogative is to be
allowed im, what person he will resolve to make capable of enjoy~
ing the fruits of that redem tion. One man was as t a subject for
mercy as another, as they all lay in their original guilt: why would
not Divine mercy cast its eye upon this man, as well as upon his
neighbor? There was no cause in the creature, but all in God ; it
must be resolved into his own will : yet not into a will without wis-
dom. God did not choose hand over head, and act by mere will,
Without reason and understanding; an Infinite Wisdom is far from
such a kind of rocedure; but the reason of God is inscrutable to us,
unless we could) understand God as well as he imderstands himself;
the whole ground lies in God himself, no part of it in the creature;
“not in him that wills, nor in him that runs, but in God that shows
mercy” (Rom. ix. 15, 16). Since God hath revealed no other cause
than his will, we can resolve it into no other than his sovereign em
pire over all creatures. It is not without a stop to our curiosity,
that in the same place where God asserts the absolute sovereignty
of his mercy to Moses, he tells him he could not see his face: “I
will be gracious to whom I will be gracious ;” and he said, “ Thou
canst not see my face” (Exod. xxxiii. 19, 20) : the rays of his infinite
wisdom are too bright and dazzling for our weakness. The apostle
acknowledged not only a wisdom in this proceeding, but a riches
and treasure of wisdom; not only that, but a depth and vastness of
those riches of wisdom; but was unable to 've us an inventory and
scheme of it (Rom. xi. 83). The secrets of his counsels are too deep
for us to wade into; in attemptgg to know the reason of those acts,
we should find ourselves swallow up into a bottomless gulf: though

