ON eorrs DomN1oN. 899
the understanding be above our capacity, et the admiration of his
authority and submission to it are not. “ We should cast ourselves
down at his feet, with a full resignation of ourselves to his sovereign
pleasure.”i This is a more comely carriage in a Christian than all
the contentious endeavors to measure God by our line.
2. In bestowing grace where he pleases. God in conversion
and pardon works not as a natural agent, putting forth strengtli to
the utmost, which God must do, if he did renew man naturally, as
the sun shines, and the fire burns, which always act, ad emtv-emum
virium, unless a cloud interpose to eclipse the one, and water to ex-
tinguish the other. But God acts as a voluntary agent, which can
freely exert his power when he please, and suspend it when he
please. Though God be necessarily good, yet he is not necessitated
to manifest all the treasures of his goodness to every subject; he
hath power to distil his dews upon one part, and not upon another.
If he were necessitated to ex ress his goodness without a, liberty, no
thanks were due to him. Wdlio thanks the sun for shining on him,
or the fire for warming him? None; because they are necessar
agents, and can do no other. \Vhat is the reason he did not reach
out his hand” to keep all the angels from sinking, as well as some, or
recover them when they were sunk? What is the reason he en-
grafts one man into the true Vine, and lets the other remain a wild
olive? Wh is not the efficacy of the Spirit always linked with the
motions of tile Spirit? Why does he not mould the heart into a
gospel frame when he fills the ear with a gospel sound? Why doth
e strike off the chains from some, and tear the veil from the heart,
while he leaves others under their natural slavery and Evyptian
darkness? Why do some lie under the bands of death, wliile an»
other is raised to a s iritual life? What reason is there for all this
but his absolute will? The apostle resolves the question, if the
fglestion be asked, why he begets one and not another? Not from
t e will of the creature, but “ his own will,” is the determination of
one (James, i. 18). Why doth he work in one “to will and to do,”
and not in another? Because of “his good pleasure," is the an-
swer of another (Phil. ii. 13). He could as well new create every
one, as he at 'first created them, and make grace as universal as na-
ture and reason, but it is not his pleasure so to do.
(1.) It is not from want of strength in himself The ower of
God is unquestionably able to strike off the chains of unbelief from
all; he could surmount the obstinacy of every child of wrath, and
inspire every son of Adam with faith as well as Adam himselfl He
wants not a. virtue su erior to the greatest resistance of his creature;
a victorious beam of light might be shot into their understandings,
and a Hood of grace might overspread their wills with one word of
his mouth, without putting forth the utmost of his power. What
hindrance could there be in any created s irit, which cannot be
easily pi_erced into and new moulded by the gather of spirits? Yet
he only breathes this eilicacious virtue into some, and leaves otlicrs
under that insensibility and hardness which they love, and suffer
them to continue in their benighting ignorance, and consume them-
i This was Dr (loodwin’s speech when he was introuble.

