400 cniuuvocx ON rar: ATTRIBUTES.
selves in the embraces of their dear, though deceitful Delilahs. He
could have conquered the resistance of the Jews, as well as chased
away the darkness and ignorance of the Gentiles. No doubt but he
could overpower the heart of the most malicious devil, as well as
that of the simplest and weakest man. But the breath of the Al-
mighty Spirit is in his own power, to breathe “ where he lists”
90 n,   8). It is at his liberty whether he will give to any the
eelings of the invincible efficacy of his ace; he did not want
strength to have ke t man as iirm as a roc¥ against the tem tation
of Satan, and poured in such fortifyin grace, as to have made him
impregnable against the powers of heg, as well as he did secure the
standing of the angels against the sedition of their fellows: but it
was his will to permit it to be otherwise.
(2.) Nor is it from any prerogative in the creature. He converts
not any for their natural perfection, because he seizeth upon the
most ignorant; nor for their moral perfection, because he converts
the most sinful; nor for their civil perfection, because he turns the
most des icable.
[L] Niit for their natural perfection of knowledge. He opened
the minds and hearts of the more ignorant. Were the nature of
the Gentiles better manured than that of the Jews, or did the ta-
pers of their imderstandipigs burn clearer? No; the one were skilled
in the prophecies of the essiah, and mi ht have compared the pre-
dictions they owned with the actions ant? sufferings of Christ, which
they were spectators of He let alone those that had expectations
of the Messiah, and expectations about the time of Christs appear-
ance, both grounded upon the oracles wherewith he had entrusted
them. The Gentiles were unacquainted with the prophets, and
therefore destitute of the expectations of the Messiah (Eph. ii. 12):
they were “without Christ; without an revelation of Christ, be-
cause “aliens from the commonwealth of lsrael, and strangers to the
covenant of promise, having no ho e, and without God in the
world,” Without any knowledge of God, or promises of Christ. The
Jews might sooner, in a way of reason, have been wrou ht upon
than the Gentiles, who were ignorant of the prophets, by whose
Writings they might have examined the truth of the aipostlesf decla-
rations. T us are they refused that were the kind.re of Christ, ac-
cording to the flesh, and the Gentiles, that were at a greater distance
from him, brought in b God; thus he catcheth not at the subtle and
mightydevils, who hady an original in spiritual nature more like to
him, but at weak and simple man. -
[2.] Not for anly moral perfection, because he converts the most
sinful: the Genti es, steeped in idolatry and superstition. He sow-
ed more faith among the Romans than in Jerusalem; more faith in
a city that was the common sewer of all the idolatry of the nations
conquered by them, than in that city which had so signally been
owned by him, and had not practise any idolatry since the Baby-
lonish captivity. He lanted saintship at Corinth, a place notorious
for the infamous worslilip of Venus, a superstition attended with the
grossest uncleanness; at Ephesus, that presented the whole world
with a cup of fornication in their temple of Diana; among the Colos-
|
i

