ON sons noimnorr. 401
mans, votaries to Gybele in a manner 'of worship attended with
beastly and lascivious ceremonies. And what character had the
Cretians from one of their own poets, mentioned by the apostle to
Titus, whom he had placed among them to further the progress of
the gospel, but the vilest and most abominable? (Titus i. 12):
“1iars,” not to be credited; “evil beasts,” not to be associated with;
“slow bellies,” iit for no service. \Vhat prerogative was there in
the nature of such putrefaction? as much as in that of a toad to be
elevated to the dignity of an angel. \Vhat steam from such dung-
hills could be welcome to him, and move him to cast his eye on
them, and sweeten them from heaven? What treasures of worth were
here to o en the treasures of his grace! Were such Hlthy snuiis fit
of theénsellvis to be kindled by, aéidhbecome a lodging for, a gospel
beam W at invitements coul e have from 1 in , beastlin
gliéttony, but only 'from his own sovereignty? Byythg he plucligd
brands out o the fire, while he left straighter and more comely
sticks to consume to ashes.
[3.] Not for any civil perfection, because he turns the most des-
picable. He elevates not nature to grace upon the account of wealth,
onor, or any civil station in the world: he dispenseth not ordi-
narily those treasures to those that the mistaken world foolishly ad
mire and dote upon (1 Cor. i. 26?; “Not man mighty, not many
noble :” a p le robe is not usua ly decked with this `ewel; he takes
more of moiildly clay than rehned dust to cast into his image, and
lodges his'treasures more in the earthly vessels than in the world’s
golden ones; he `ves out his richest doles to those that are the
scorn and reproach! of the world. Should he impart his grace most
to those that abound in wealth or honor, it had been some founda
tion for a conception that he had been moved by those vulgarly es
teemed excellencies to indulge them more than others. But such a
conceit languisheth when we behold the subjects of his grace as void
originally' of any allurements, as the are full of provocations.
Hereby e declares himself free from all created engagements, and
that he is not led by any external motives in the object.
EL] It is not from any obligation which lies upon him. He is in-
de ted to none: disobliged biy all. No man deserves from him any
act of grace, but every man eserves what the most deplorable are
left to suffer. He is obliged by the children of wrath to nothing else
but showers of wrath; owes no more a debt to fallen man, than to
fallen devils, to restore them to their first station b a superlative
grace. How was he more bound to restore them, than he was to
preserve them; to catch them after they fell, than to put a bar in
the way of their falling? God, as a sovereign, ave laws to men,
and a strength suflieient to keep those laws. What obli ation is
there upon God tb repair that strength man wilfully lost, and extract
him out of that condition into which he voluntarily plunged him~
self? What if man sinned by temptation, which is a reason alleged
by some, might not many of the devils do so too? Though there
was a first of them that sinned without a temptation, yet many of
them mi ht be seduced into rebellion by the ringleader. Upon that
account he is no more bound to give grace to all men, than to devils.
vol.. u.-26

