402 cmnsocx ON rim urrnmurss.
If he promised life upon obedience, he threatened death upon trans-
gression. By man’s disobedience God is quit of his romise, and
owes nothing but punishment upon the violation of his liiw. Indeed
man may pretend to a claim of suiiicient strexggth from him by crea-
tion, as God is the author of nature, and he h it; but since he hath
extinguished it by his sin, he cannot in the least pretend any obliga=
tion on God for a new strength. If it be a “peradventure” whether
he will “ give repentance,” as it is 2 Tim. ii. 25, there is no tie in
the case; a tie would put it beyond a peradventure with a God that
never forfeited. his o ligation. N o husbandman thinks himself
obliged to bestow cost an pains, manure and tillage, upon one Held
more than another; though the nature of the ground may requiri-
more, yet he is at his liberty whether he will ex end more upon onu
than another! He may let it lie fallow as long as he lease.
God is less obliged to till and prune his creatures, than man is oblipel
to his field or trees. If a king proclaim a pardon to a company of
rebels, upon the condition of each of them_paying such a sum of
money; their estates before were capable of satisfymg the condition,
but their rebellion hath reduced them to an indigent condition; the
proclamation itselfis an act of grace, the condition required is not
impossiblein itself: the prince, out of a tenderness to some, sends
them that sum of money, he hath by his proclamation obliged them
to pay, and thereby" enabled them to answer the condition he re-
uires; the irst he doth by a sovereign authority, the second he
doth by a sovereign bounty. He was obliged to neither of them;
punishment was a debt due to all of them; if he would remit it upon
condition, he did relax his sovereign right; and if he would by his
largess make .any of them capable to fu fil the condition, by sending
them resently a suiiicient sum to pay the fine, he acted as pro rie-
tor olfqiis lpwn goods, tlq lpf them in such a quantity to those
tow om ewasnoto 1 e to estowamite.
[5.] It must therefore she an act of his mere sovereignty. This
can only sit arbitrator in every gracious act. Why id he give
grace to Abel and not to Cain, since they both lay in the same
womb, and equally derived from their parents a taint in their na-
ture; but that he would show a standing example of his soverei ty
to the future ages of the world in the first posterit of man? Why
did he 've race to Abraham, and separate him fiiom his idolatrous
kindrecfl to dignify him to be the root of the Messiah? Why did
he confine his promise to Isaac, and not extend it to Ishrnae , the
seed of the same Abraham by Hagar, or to the children he had by
Keturah after Sarah’s death? What reason can be alleged for-this but
his sovereign will ? Why did he not give the fallen angels a moment
of repentance after their sin, but condemned them to irrevocable
pains? Is it not as free for him to give grace to_ whom he please, as
create what worlds he please; to form this corrupted clay into his
own image, as to take such a Xarcel of dust from all the rest of the
creation whereof to coxplpact dam’s body? Hath he not as much
jurisdiction over the si ul mass of his creatures in a new creation,
as he had over the chaos in the old? And what reason can be ren-
' " Claude. lur ln Parlbole des Noes, D. 89.

