ON corrs DoMrNioN. 408
dered, of his advancing this part of matter to the nobler di ity of a
star, and leaving that other part to make up the dark bod-E of the
earth; to compact one part into a glorious sun, and a.not er part
into a hard rock, but his royal prerogative? What is the reason a
prince subjects one malefactor to Iipmshment, and lifts up) anotherto
a place of trust and profit? that haraoh honored the utler with
an attendance on his person, and remitted the baker to the hands ofthe
executioner? It was his pleasure. And is not as great right due to God,
as is allowed to the worms of the earth? What is the reason he
hardens a Pharaoh, by a denying him that grace which should mol-
lify him, and allows it to another? It is because he will. “Whom
he will he hardens" (Rom. ix. 18). Hath not man the liberty to ull
u the sluice, and let the water run into what part of the ground) he
plieases? What is the reason some have not a heart to understand
the beauty of his wa s? Because the Lord doth not give it them
(Dent. xxix. 4). Why doth he not give all his converts an equal
measure of his sanctifying grace? some have mites and some have
treasures. Why doth he give his grace to some sooner, to some
later? some are inspired in their infancy, others not till a full age,
and after; some not till they have fallen into some oss sin, as Paul;
some betimes, that they may do him service: othlers later,`as the
thief upon the cross, and presently snatcheth them out of the world ?
Some are weaker, some stronger in nature, some more beautiful and
lovely, others more uncomely and sluggish. It is so in supernatu-
rals. What reason is there or this, but his own will? This is in-
stead of all that can be assigned on the part of God. He is the free
disposer of his own goods, and as a Father may give a greater portion
to one child than to another. And what reason of complaint IS there
against God? may not a toad complain that God did not make it
a man, and give it a portion of reason? or a fiy complain that God
did not make it an angel, and give it a garment of light; had they
but any spark of understanding; as well as man complain that God
did not give him grace as well as another? Unless he sincerely de-
sired it, and then was denied it, he might complain of God, though
not as a sovereign, yet as a promiser of grace to them that ask it.
God doth not render his sovereignty formidable; he shuts not up
his throne of grace from any that seek him; he invites man; his
arms are open, and the sceptre stretched out; and no man continues
under the arrest of his lusts, but he that is unwilling to be other-
wise, and such a one hath no reason to complain of God.
3. His sovereignéy is manifest in disposing the means of grace to
some, not to all. e hath caused the sun to shine bright in one
place, while he hath left others benighted and deluded by the devil’s
oracles. Why do the evangelical dews fall in this or that place, and
not in another? Why was the gos el published in Rome so soon,
and not in Tartary? Wh hath it heen extinguished in some places,
as soon almost as it had been kindled in them? Why hath one
place been honored with the beams of it in one age, and been
covered with darkness the next? One country hath been made a
sphere for this star, that directs to Christ, to move in; and atier-
wards it hath been taken away, and placed in another; sometimes

