404 cnamrocx ON 'rim Arrnmrrms.
more clearly it hath shone, sometimes more darkly, in the same
place; what is the reason of this? It is true something of it may be
referred to the justice of God, but much more to the sovereignty of
God. That the ospel is published later, and not sooner, the apostle
tell us is “accordingto thepomrrzandment of the everlasting God”
(Rom. xvi. 26).
(1.) The means of grace, alter the families from Adam became dis-
tinct, were never granted to all the world. After that fatal breach in
.Adam’s family by the death of Abel, and Cain’s separation, we read
not of the means of grace continued amon Cain’s osterity; it seems
to be continued in Adam’s sole family, ang not ulilished in societies
till the time of Seth. “Then began men to call) upon the name of
the Lord” <Gen. iv. 26). It was continued in that family till the
deluge, which was 1523 years after the creation, according to some,
or 1656 years, according to others. After that, when the world de-
generated, it was communicated to Abraham, and settled in the pos-
terity that descended from Jacob ; thou h he leit not the world with-
out a witness of himself, and some sprinqdin of revelations in other
partsasas appears by the Book of Job, an? the discourses of his
nen .
(2.) The Jews had this privile e anted them above other nations,
to have a clearer revelation of god? God se arated them from all
the world to honor them with the depositum ol? his oracle  (Rom.  
2): “To them were committed the oracles of God.” In which re-
Efetrd all other nations are said to be “ without God” (Eph. ii. 12), as
ing destitute of so great a privilege. The Spirit blew in Canaan
when the lands about it felt not the saving breath of it. “ He hath
not dealt so with any nation; and as for his judgments, they have
not known _them” (Ps, cxlvii. 20). The rest had no warnings from
the prophets, no dictates from heaven, but what they had by the light
of nature, the view of the works of creation, and the administration
of Providence, and what remained among them of some ancient tradi-
tions derived from Noah, which, in tract of time, were much defhced.
We read but of one Jonah sent to Nineveh, but frequent alarms to
the Israelites by a multitude of prophets commi ioned by God. It
is true, the door of the Jewish church was open to what proselytes
would enter themselves, and embrace their religion and worship ;
but there was no public proclamation made in the world ; only God,
by his miracles in their deliverance from Egypt (which could not but
Le famous among all the neighbor nations), declared them to be
a people favored by heaven: but the tradition from Adam and Noah
was not publiclfy revived by God in other parts, and raised from that
grave of forget ulness wherein it had lain so long buried. Was there
any reason in them for this indulgence? God might have been as
liberal to any other nation, yea, to all the nations in the world, if it
had been his sovereign leasure : any other eo le were as fit to be
entrusted with his oracles, and be subjects iibr his worship, as that
people; yet all other nations, till the rejection of the Jews, because
of t eil rejection of Christ, were strangers from the covenant of
promise. These people were part of the common mass of the world:
they had no prerogative in nature above Adam’s posterity. Were

