oN_ Gorrs DomN1oN. 405
they the extract of an innocent part of his loins, and all the other
nations drained out of his putrefaction? Had the blood of Abraham,
from whom the were more immediatel descended, any more pre-
cious tincture than the rest of mankind? They, as well as other
nations, were made of “one blood" (Acts xvii. 26), and that cor-
rulpted both in the sprinv and in the rivulets. Were they better than
ot er nations, when God Hrst drew them out of their slavery? We
have J oshua’s authority for it, that they had complied with the Egypt-
ian idolatry, “and served other gods,” in that place of their servi-
tude (Josh. xxiv.~14). Had they had an abhorrency of the supersti-
tion of Egypt, while they remained there, they could not so soon
have erected a golden calf for worship, in imitation of the Egyptian
idols. All the rest of mankind had as inviting reasons to present
God with, as those peo le had. God might have granted the same
privilege to all the worid, as well as to them, or denied it them, and
endowed all the rest of the world with his statutes: but the enrich-
ing such a small compan of people with his Divine showers, and
leaving the rest of the worlld as a barren wilderness in spirituals, can
be placed upon no other account orignally than that of his unaccount-
able soverci nt , of his love to them : there was nothing in them to
merit such high titles from God as his first-born, his peculiar treas-
ure, the apple of his eye. He disclaims any righteousness in them,
and speaks a word sutiicient to damp sue thoughts in them, b
charging them with their wickedness, while he “loaded them with
his benefits" (Dent. ix. 4, 6). The Lord “igives thee not” this land
for “thy righteousness ;” for thou art a sti -necked people. It was
an act of God’s free pleasure to “choose them to be a. people to him-
self” (Deut. vii. 6).
(3.) God afterwards rejected the Jews, gave them u to the hard-
ness of their hearts, and spread the gos el among the gentiles. He
hath cast oif the children of the kingdldm, those that had been en-
rolled for his subjects for many ages, who seemed, by their descent
from Abraham, to have a right to the privileges of braham ; and
called men from the east and from the west, from the darkest cor-
ners in the world, to “sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, in
the kingdom of heaven,” i. e. to artake with them of the promises
of the ospel (Matt. viii. 11). 'Ilhe people that were accounted ac-
cuised hy the Jews enjoy the means of grace, which have been hid
from those that were once dignified this 1600 years; that they have
neither ephod, nor teraphim, nor sacrifice, nor any true worship of
God among them (Hos. iii. 4). Why he should not give them grace
to acknowledge and own the person ofthe Messiah, to whom he had
made the promises of him for so many successive ages, but let their
“heart be fat,” and “their ears heavy ’ (Isa. vi. 10) -why the os-
pel at length, aiter the resurrection of Christ, shou d be presented to
the Gentiles, not b chance, but pursuant to the resolution and pre-
diction of God, decihred by the pro hets that it should be so in time?
-why he should let so many hundreds of years pass over, after the
world was peopled, and let the nations all that while soak in their
idolatrous customs ?-why he should not call the Gentiles without
rejecting the Jews, and bind them both up together in the bundle of

