¢
406 CHARNOCK ON THE A'l'I‘RIBU’I'E.
life ?-why he should acquaint some people with it a little alter- the
publishing it in Jerusalem, by the descent of the Spirit, and others
not along time after ?--some in the first ages of Christianity enjoyed
it; others have it not, as those in America, till the last age of the
world ;--can be referred to nothing but his sovereign pleasure. What
merit can be discovered in the Gentiles? There is something of jusf
tice in the case of the Jews’ rejection, nothing but sovenei nt in the
Gentiles’ reception into the church. If the Jews were bad, the Gen-
tiles were in some sort worse: the Jews owned the one true God,
without mixture of idols, though they owned not the Messiah in his
appearance, which they did in a promise; but the Gentiles owned
neither the one nor the other. Some tell us, it was for the merit of
some of their ancestors. How comes the means of in-ace, then, to
be taken from the Jew, who had (if any people ever ad) meritori~
ous ancestors for a plea? If the merit of some of their former ro-
genitors were the cause, what was the reason the debt due to their
merit was not paid to their immediate progeny, or to themselves, but
to a osterity so distant from them, and so abominably depraved as
the (gentile world was at the da of the gospel-sun striking mto'their
horizon? What merit mi ht he in their ancestors (if any could be
supposed in the most refinfé rubbish), it was so little for t emselves,
that no oil could be spared out of their lamps for others. What
merit their ancestors might have, might be forfeited by the succeed-
ing generations. It is ordinarily seen, that what honor a father de-
serves in a state for public service, may be lost by the son, forfeited
by treason, and himself attainted. Or was it out of a foresiglht that
the Gentiles would embrace it, and the Jews reject it; that t e Gen-
tiles would embrace it in one place, and not in another? How did
God foresee it, but in his own Igrace, which he was resolved to dis-
play in one, not in another? t must be then still resolved into his
sovereign pleasure. Or did he foresee it in their wills and natlue ?
What, were they not all one common dross? Was any part of Adam,
by nature, better than another? ,How did God foresee that which
was not, nor could be, without his pleasure to give ability, and grace
to receive? Well, then, what reason but the sovereign pleasure of
God can be alleged, why Christ forbade the apostles, at their first
commission, to preach to the Gentiles (Matt. x. 15), but, at the sec-
ond and standing commission, orders them to preach to “every crea-
ture?" Why did he ut a demur to the resolutions of Paul and
Timothy, to impart ligllt to Bithyuia, or order them to go into Mace-
donia? Was that country more worth upon whom ln. a great
part of the blood of the world shed in éexandefs time (gots xvi.
6, 7, 9, 10)? Why should Corazin and Bethsaida enjoy those means
that were not granted to the Tyrians and Sidonians, who might prob-
ably have sooner reached out their arms to welcome it (Matt. xi. 21)?
Why should God send the gospel into our island, and cause it to
Hourish so long here, and not send it, or continue it, in the furthest
eastern parts of the world? Why should the very rofcssion of
Christianity possess so small a compass of ground in the world, but
live parts in thirty, the Mahometans holding six artsjland the other
nineteen overgrown with _Paganism, where eitliier e gospel was

