ON son's nommos. 407
never planted, or else since rooted' up? To whom will you refer
this, but to the same cause our Saviour doth the revelation of the
gospel to babes, and not to the wise-even to his Father? “For so
lt seemed good in thy sight” (Matt. xi. 25, 26); “ For so was thy
good pleasure before thee’ (as in the original) ; it is at his pleaslue
whether he will give an a clear revelation of his gospel, or leave
them only to the light oil, nature. He could have kept u the first
beam of the gospel in the promise in all nations amon the a osta-
sies of Adam s posterity, or renewed it in all nations Wien it began
to be darkened, as well as he first published it to Adam after his fall;
but it was his sovereign pleasure to lpermit it to be obsciued in one
place, and to keep it lighted in anot er.
4. His soverei%ty 18 manifest in the various influences of the
means of gg-ace. e saith to these waters of the sanctuary, as to the
Hoods of t e sea, “ Hitherto you shall go, and no fluther." Some-
times they wash away the filth of the flesh and outward man, but
not that of the spirit; the gospel spiritualizeth some, and only
moralizeth others; some are by t e power of it struck down to con-
viction, but not raised up to conversion; some have only the gleams
of it in their consciences, and others ~more powerful flashes; some
remain in their thick darkness under the beaming of the gospel every
da in their face, and after a long insensibleness are roused by its
light and warmth ; sometimes there is such a powerful breath in it,
that it levels the haughty imaginations of men, and lays them at its
feet that before strutted against it in the pride of their heart. The
foundation of this is not in the g}§)SP8l itself, which is always the
same, nor in the ordinances, whic are channels as sound at one
time as at another, but Divine sovereignty that spirits them as he
pleaseth, and “blows when and where lt ists." t has sometim 
conquered its thousands (Acts, ii. 41); at another time scarce its tens;
sometimes the harvest hath been great, when the laborers have been
but few; at another time it hath been small, when the laborers have
been many ; sometimes whole sheaves ; at another time scarce glean-
ings. The evangelical net hath been sometimes full at a cast, and at
every cast; at another time many have labored all night, and day
too, and catched nothing (Acts, ii. 47% “The Lord added to the
'church daily.” The gospel chariot dot not always return with cap-
tives chained to the sides of it, but sometimes blurred and reproac -
cal, wearing the marks of hell’s spite, instead of imprinting the
marks of its own beauty. In Corinth it triumphed over many
ieople (Acts, xviii. 10); in Athens it is mocked, and gathers but a
lbw clusters (Acts, xvil. 32, 34). God kee s the key of the heart,
as well as of the womb. The apostles had) a power of publishing
the gospel, and working miracles, but under the Divine conduct; it
was an instrumentality durante bane placim, and as God saw it con-
venient. Miracles were not upon every occasion allowed to them
to be wrought, nor success upon every administration granted to
them; God sometimes lent them the key, but to take out no more
treasure than was allotted to them. There is a variety in the time of
gospel operation; some rise out of their graves of sm, and beds of
sluggishness, at the first appearance of this sun; others lie snorting

