408 cmmrocx ON 'ram arrnrsurns.
longer. Why doth not God spirit it at one season as well as at
another, but set his distinct eriods of time, but because he will show
his absolute freedom? Aus do we not sometimes experiment that
after the most solemn preparations of the heart, we are frustrated of
those incomes we expected? Perhaps it was because we thought
Divine returns were due to our preparations, and God stops up the
channel, and we return drier than we came, that God may confute
our false opinion, and preserve the honor of his own sovereignty.
Sometimes we leap wit John Baptist in the womb at the appear-
ance of Chri t; sometimes we lie upon a lazy bed when he knocks
from heaven; sometimes the fieece is dr , and sometimes wet, and
God withholds to drop down his dew of the morning u on it. The
dews of his word, as well as the droppings of the cloud; belong to
his royalty; light will not shine into t e heart, though it shine round
about us, without the sovereign order of that God “ who command-
ed light to shine out of the darkness” of the chaos (2 Cor. iv. 6).
And is it not seen also in regard of the refreshing influences of the
word? sometimes the strongest arguments, and clearest promises,
prevail nothing towards the quelling black and despairizfg imagi-
nations ; when, afterwards, we have found them righted away
by an unexpected word, that seemed to have less virtue in it itself
than any that passed in vain before it. The reasouings of wisdom
have dro ped down like arrows against a brazen wall, when the
speech of? a weaker person hath found an eiicacy. It is God by his
sovereignty spirits one word and not another; sometimes a secret
word comes in, which was not thought of before, as dro ped from
heaven, and gives a refreshing, when emptiness was found) in all the
rest. One word from the lips of a sovereign prince is a greater cordial
than all the harangues of subjects without it; what is the reason of
this variet , but that God would increase the proofs of his own sover-
eignty? that as it was a part of his dominion to create the beauty
of a world, so it is no less to create the ace as well as the grace of
the heart (Isa. lvii. 19): “I create the fgiiit of the lips, peace.” Let
uslearn from hence to have adoring thoughts oi, not murmuring
fancies against, the sovereignty of God; to acknowledge it with
thankfulness in what we have; to implore it with a holy submission
in what we want. To own God as a sovereign in a way of depend-
ence, is the way to be owned by him as subjects in a way of favor.
5. His sovereignty is manifested in giving a greater measLu°e of
knowledge to some than to others. Wliat parts, gifts, excellency of
nature, any have above others, are God’s donative; “ He gives wis-
dom to the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding”
(Dan.   2l); wisdom, the habit, and knowledge, the right use of it
in discerning the right nature of objects, and the Htness of means
conducing to the en ; all is but a. beam of Divine light; and the
different degrees of knowledge in one ma.n`above another, are the
effects of his sovereign pleasure. He enlightens not the minds of
all men to know every part of his will; one “eats with a doubtful
conscience,” another in “ faith,” without any staggering (Rom. xiv.
2). Peter had a desire to keep ugxcgircuincision, not fully understand-
ing the mind of God in the a. lition of the Jewish ceremonies;

