ON eon's nounnorr. 409
while Paul was clear in the truth of that doctrine. A thought comes
into our mind that, like a sunbeam, makes a Scripture truth visible
in a moment, which before we were poring upon without any suc-
cess; this is from his pleasure. One in the primitive times had the
gift of knowledge, another of wisdom,_ one the gift of prophecy,
another of tongues, one the gift of healing, another that of discern-
ing spirits; why this gift to one man, and not to another? Why
such a distribution in several subjects? Because it is his sovereign
leasure. “The S irit divides to ever man severally as he will”
S1 Cor. xii. 11). Vghy doth he give lllezaleel and Aholiab the gift
of engraving, and making curious works for the tabernacle (Exod.
xxxi. 31), and not others?) Why doth he bestow the treasures of
evange ical knowledge upon the meanest of earthen vessels, the oor
Galileans, and neglect the Pharisees, stored with the knowledge both
of naturals and morals? Why did he give to some, and not to
others, “to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven?" (Matt.
xiii. 11.) The reason is implied in the words, “ Because it was the
mystery of his kingdom,” and therefore was the act of his sover-
eignty. How would it be a kingdom and monarchy if the govern-
or of it were bound to do what he did? It is to be resolved only
into the sovereign right of pro riety of his own goods, that he fur-
nisheth babes with a stock of knowledge, and leaves the wise and
prudent emfpty of it gliiatt. xi. 26): “Even so, Father: for so it
seemed goo in thy sig t.” Why did he not reveal his mind to Eli,
a grown man, and in the highest office in the Jewish church, but
open it to Samuel, a stripling why did the Lord go from the one to
t e other? Because his motion depends upon his own will. Some
are of so dull a constitution, that they are inca able of any impres-
sion, like rocks too hard for a stam ; others like water; you may
stamp what you please, but it vanislheth as soon as the seal is re-
moved. It is God forms men as he pleaseth: some have parts to
govern a kingdom, others scarce brains to conduct their own afiairs;
one is at to rule men, and another scarce ‘fit to kee swine; some
have capacious souls in crazy and deformed bodies, others contracted
spirits and heavier minds in a richer and more beautiful case. Why
are not all stones alike? some have a more sparkling light, as gems,
more orient than pebbles ;-some are stars of first, and others of a
less magnitude; others as mean as glow-worms, a slimy lustre :-it
is because he is the sovereign Disposer of what belongs to him ; and
gives here, as well as at the resurrection, to one “a glory of the sun;”
to another that of the “ moon ;” and to a third a less, resembling
that of a “star” (1 Cor. xv. 40). And this God may do by the
same right of dominion, as he exercised when he endowed some
kinds of creatures with a greater perfection than others in their na-
ture. Why may he not as well garnish one man with a greater
proportion of gifts, as make a man differ in excellency from the na-
ture of a beast? or frame angels to a more purely spiritual nature
than a man? or make one angel a cherubim or seraphim, with a
greater measure of light than another? Though the foundation of
this is his dominion, yet his wisdom is not uninterested in his sover-
eign disposal; he garnisheth those with a greater ability whom he

