410 cnsnuocx ON rm: Arrmaurss.
intends for greater service, than those that he intends for less, or
none at all; as an artificer bestows more labor, and carves a more
excellent 'figure u n those stones that he designs for a more honor-
able place in the biciilding. But though the intending this or that
man for service be the motive of laing in a greater provision in
him than in others, yet still it is toiie referred to his sovereignty,
since that first act of culling him out for such an end was the fruit
solely of his soverei pleasure : as when he resolved to make a crea~
t\u°e actively to glorigx him, in wisdom he must give him reason; yet
the making such a. creature was an act of his absolute dominion. _
6. His sovereignty is manifest in the calling some to a more spe-
cial service in t eir generation. God settles some in immediate
offices of his service, and perpetuates them in those otlices, with a
neglect of others, who seem to have a greater pretence to them.
Moses was a great sufferer for Israel, the so icitor for them in Egypt,-
and the conductor of them from Egypt to Canaan; yet he was not
chosen to the high priesthood, but that was an omce settled upon
Aaron, and his posterity) after him, in a lineal descent; Moses was
onl pitched upon for t e present rescue of the captived Israelites,
andy to be the instrument of Divine miracles; but notwithstanding
all the success he had in his cond uct, his faithfulness in his em loy-
ment, and the transcendent familiarity he had with the great Quler
of the world, his posterity were left in the common level of the tribe
of Levi, without any special mark of dignit upon them above the
rest for all the services of that great man. Wh; Moses for a tem-
porary magistrate, Aaron for a perpetual priest ood, above all the
rest of the sraelites? hath little reason but the absolute pleasure of
God, who distributes his employments as he pleaseth; and as a
master orders his servant to do the noblest work, and another to
labor in baser ofiices, according to his pleasure. Wh doth he call
out David, a, she herd, to sway the Jewish see tre, above the rest
of the brothers, that had a fairer ap earance, and had been bred in
arms, and inured to the toils and) watchings of a camp? Why
should Mary be the mother of Christ, and not some other of the
same family of David, of a more splendid birth, and a nobler educa-
tion? Though some other reasons maybe rendered, yet that which
aiibrds the greatest acquiescence, is the sovereign will of God. Why
did Chr%t choose out of the meanest of the people the twelve
apostles, to be heralds of his race in Judea, and other parts of the
world; and afterwards select gPaul before Gamaliel, his instructor,
and others of the Jews, as learned as himself, and advance him to be
the most eminent apostle, above the heads of those who had min-
istered to Christ in the days of his flesh? Why  hould he preserve
eleven of those he Bret ca led to propagate and enlarge hiskmgdom
and leave the other to the employment of shedding his b oodi
Why, in the times of olu' reformation, he should choose a Luther
out of a monastery, and_ leave others in their. %1p1erstitious nastiness,
to erish in the traditions of their fathers? y set up Calvin, as
a bulwark of the gospel, and let others as learned as himself
wallow in the sink of popery? It is his pleasure to do so. The
potter hath power to separate this part of the clay to form a vessel

