on eon’s nommos. 411
for a more public use, and another part of the clay to' form a
vessel for a more private one. God takes the meanest clay to
form the most excellent and honorable vessels in his house. As
he formed man, that was to govern the creatures of the same clay
and earth whereof the beasts were formed, and not of that nobler
element of water, which gave birth to the fish and birds: so he
forms some, that are to do him the greatest service, ofthe meanest
materials, to manifest the absolute riglht of his dominion.
7. His sovereignty is manifest in t e bestowing much wealth and
honor upon some, and not vouchsadng it to the more industrious
labors and attempts of others. Some are abased, and others are
elevated; some are enriched, and others impoverished; some scarce
feel any cross, and others scarce feel any comfort in their whole
lives; some sweat and toil, and what t ey labor for runs out of
their reach; others sit still, and what they wish for falls into their
lap. One of the same clay hath a diadem to beautify his head, and
another wants a covering to protect him from the weather. One
hath a stately palace to lodge in, and another is scarce master of a
cottage where to lay his head. A sceptre is put into one man’s
hand, and a s ade into another’s; a rich pugple gamisheth one
man’s body, wliiile another wraps himself in un hill rags. The
poverty of some, and the wealth of others, is an etigect of the Divine
sovereignty, whence God is said to be the Maker of the “poor as
well as the rich” $[l’rov. xxii. Q not only of their persons, but of
their conditions. he earth, an the fulness thereof, is his ropriety;
and he hath as much a right as Joseph had to bestow dlianges ot
raiment upon what Benjamins he please. There is an election to a
greater degree of worldly felét-gy, as there is an election of some to
a greater degree of supernat grace and glor : as he makes it
“rain upon one city, and not upon another” (yiimos iv. 7), so he
causeth prosperity to distil upon the head of one and not upon
another; crowning some with earthly blessings, while he crosseth
others with continual afllictions: for e speaks of himself as a great
proprietor of the corn that nourisheth us, and the wine that cheers
us, and the wood that warm us (Hos.   8, 9); “I will take awtg,”
not your corn and wine, but “my corn, my wine, my wool.” is
right to dis oss of the “goods of every particular person is unques-
tionable. I;i)e can take away from one, and fpass over the propriety
to another. Thus he devo ved the right o the Egy tian jewels to
the Israelites, and bestowed upon the captives what before he had
vouchsafed to the oppressors; as every sovereign state demands the
goods of their subjects for the public advantage in a case of exi-
enc , though none of that wealth was gained by any public office,
gut by their private industr , and gained in a country not subject
to the dominion of those tliat require a portion of them. By this
right he changes strangelv the scene of the world; sometimes those
that are high are reduced to a mean and ignominious condition,
those that are mean are advanwd to a state of plenty and glory.
The counter, which in accounting signifies now but a penny, is
presently raised up to signify a pound. The proud ladies of Israel,
instead of a girdle of curious needlework, are brought to make use

