412 cnamvocx on rrrs ATTRIBUTES.
of a cord; as the vulgar translates rent, a , or list of cloth (Isa.
iii. 24), and sackcloth for a stomacher insteri of silk. This is the
,sovereign act of God, as he is Lord of the world (Ps. lxxv. 6, 7):
“Promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from
the south, but God is the Judge: he putteth down one, and setteth
up another.” ' He doth no wrong to any man, if he lets him languish
out his days in poverty and disgrace: if he gives or takes awa ,
he meddles with nothing but what is his own more than ours: if lie
did dispense his benefits equall to all, men would soon think it
their due. The inequality and clianges preserve the notion of God’s
sovereignty, and correct our natural unmindfulness of it. If there
were no c anges, God would not be feared as the “ King of all the
earth” (Ps. lv. 19): to this might also be referred his investing  ome
countries with greater riches in their bowels, and on the surface;
the disposing some of the fruitful and pleasant regions of Canaan
or Italy, while he settles others in the icy and barren parts of the
northern climates.
8. His sovereignty is manifest in the times and seasons of dispens-
ing his goods. He is Lord of the times when, as well as of
the goods which, he doth dispose of to any person; these “the
Father hath put in his own power” (Acts i. 7). As it was his sov-
ereign leasure to restore the kingdom to Israel, so the would pitch
upon tile time when to do it, and would not have his right invaded.,
so much as by a question out of curiosity. This disposing of op-
portunities, in many things, can be referred to nothing else but his
sovereign pleasure. Why should Christ come at the twilight and
evening ofthe world? at the fulness, and not at the be `nnin , of
time? Why should he be from the infancy of the world so long
wrapt up in a promise, and not appear in the flesh till the last
times and gray hairs of the worl , when so many persons, in all
nations, had been hurried out of the world without anv notice of
such a Redeemer? What was this but his sovereign Will? Why
the Gentiles should be left so long in the devil’s chains, wallow'
in the sink of their abominable superstitious, since God had declarudd
his intention by the prophets to call multitudes of them, and reject
the Jews ;-why he should defer it so long, can be referred to
nothing but the same cause. What is the reason the veil continues
so long u on the heart of the Jews, that is promised, one time or
other, to be taken off? Why doth God delay the accomplishment
of those glorious predictions _of the happiness and interest of that
people? Is it because of the sin of their ancestors,-a reason that
cannot bear much wei ht? If we cast it upon that account, their
conversion can never be expected, can never be effected; if for the
sins of their ancestors, is it not also for their own sins? Do their
sins grow less in number, or less venomous, or provokinag in quality,
by this delay ? Is not their blasphemy of Christ as m icious, their
hatred of him as strong and rooted, as ever? Do they not as much
approve of the bloody act of their ancestors, since so many ages are
East, as their ancestors did applaud it at the time of the execution?
ave they not the same disposition and Will, discovered suiliciently
by the scorn of Christ, and of those that profess his name, to act the

