ON cons nommos. 418
same thing over again, were Christ now in the same state in the
world, and they invested with the same power of government? If
their conversion were deferred one age after the death of Christ for
the sins of their preceding ancestors, is it to be expected now; .since
the present generation of the Jews in all countries have the sins of
those remote, the succeeding, and their more immediate ancestors,
lying upon them? This, therefore cannot be the reason; but as it
was the sovereign pleasure of God to foretell his intention to over-
come the stoutness of their hearts, so it is his sovereign pleasure
that it shall not be performed till the “fulness of the Gentiles be
some in” (Rom. xi. 25). As he is the Lord of his own grace, so he
is the Lord of the time when to dis ense-it. Why did God create
the world in six days, which he could have erected and beautified
in a moment? Because it was his pleasxue so to do. Why did he
frame the world when he did, and not man ages before? Because
he is Master of his own work. Wh did he not resolve to bring
Israel to the fruition of Canaan till afiler fo1u° hundred years? Why
did he draw out their deliverance to so long time after he began to
attempt it? Why such a multitude of plagues upon Pharaoh to
work it, when he could have cut short the work by one mortal blow
upon the tyrant and his accomplices? It was his sovereign plea-
sure to act so, though not without other reasons intelligible enough
by looking into the story. Why doth he not bring man to a perfec-
tion of stature in a moment after his birth, but let him continue in
a tedious infancy, in a semblance to beasts, for the want of an exer-
cise of reason? Why doth he' not bring this or that man, whom
he intends for service, to a fitness in an instant, but by long tracts of
study, and through many meanders and labyrinths? Why doth he
transplant a hopeful erson in his youth to the pleasures of another
Worl , and let another, of an eminent holiness, continue in the
misery of this, and wade through many Hoods of aiilictions? What
can we chiedy refer all these thin to but his sovereign pleasure?
The “times are determined b Gog (Acts, xvii. 26).
Tkirdlg. The dominion of god is manifested as a governor, as well
as a lawgiver and pro rietor. .
1. In disposing ofp states and kingdoms. (Ps. lxxv. 7): “ trod is
Judge; he puts own one, hnd sets up another.” “Judge” is to be
taken not in the same sense that we commonly use the word, for a
judicial minister in a way of trial, but for a. governor; as you know
the extraordinary governors raised ulp among the Jews were called
judges, whence one entire book in t e Old estament is so denomi-
nated, the Book of Judges. God hath a prerogative to “ change
times and seasons" (Dan. ii. 21? fi. e. the revolutions of government,
whereby times are altered. ow many empires, that ave spread
their mugs over a great part of the world, have had their carcasses
torn in pieces; and unheard-of nations plucked off the wings of the
Roman ea le, after it had preyed upon many nations of the world;
and the llfacedonian empire was as the dew that is dried up a short
time after it fa1ls.l He erected the Chaldean monarchy, used Nebu-
ehadnezzar to overthrow and punish the ungrateful Jews, and, by e
Mr. Mode. in one of his letters

