$14 cmnnocx ON 'rss mrainurns.
sovereign act, gave a great parcel of land into his hands; and wha'
he thought was his iight by conquest, was God’s donative to him.
You ma read the charter to Nebuchadnezzar, whom he terms his
servant ZTer. xxvii. 6): “And now I have given all those lands” (the
lands are mentioned ver. 3), “ into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar, the
king of Babylon, my servant :” which decree he pronounceth after
his assertin his right of sovereign? over tl e whole earth (ver. 5).
After that, is puts a period to the haldean empire, and by the same
sovereign authority decrees Bab lon to be a spoil to the nations of
the north country, and delivers her up as a spoil to the Persian (Jer.
1. 9, 10): and this for the manifestation of his soverei n dominion,
that he was the Lord, that made pxeace, and created evg (Isa. xlv. 6,
7); God -afterwards overthrows t at by the Grecian Alexander, pro-
p esied of under the figure of a goat, with “one horn between his.
eyes” (Dan. viii.): the swift current of his victories as swift as his
motion, showed it to be from an extraordinary hand of heaven, and
not either from the policy or strength of the Macedonian. His
strength, in the prophet, is demribed to be less, being but one horn
rlmning against the Persian, described under the figure of a ram with
two hornszm and himself acknowledged a Divine motion exciting
him to that great attempt, when he saw Joddus, the high~ riest, com-
ing out in his priestly robes, to meet him at his approacqi to Jeru-
salem, whom he was about to worship, acknowled ng that the vision
which put him upon the Persian war appeared to Exim in such a garb.
What was the reason Israel was rent irom Judah, and both split into
two distinct kingdoms? Because Rehoboarn would not hearken to
sober and sound counsels, but follow the advice of upstarts. What
was the reason he did not hearken to sound advice, since he had so
advantageous an education under his f`ather Solomon, the wisest
prince ofthe world? “ The cause was f'rom the Lord” (1 Kin  
5), that he might perform what he had before spoke. In iiiais he
acted accordin to his ro al word; but, in the first resolve, he acted
as a sovereigndord, that had the disposal of all nations in the world.
And though Ahab had a numerous posterity, seventy sons to inherit
the throne after him, yet God by his sovereign authority gives them
up into the hands of ehu, who   them of their lives and hopes
together: not a man of them sue ed in the throne, but the crown
is transferred to Jehu by God’s digposal. In wars, whereby flour-
ishing kingdoms are overthrown, od hath the chief hand; in refi
erence to which it is observed that, in the two prophets, Isaiah and
Jeremiah, God is called “ the Lord of Hosts” one hundred and thirt
times. It is not the sword of the ca tain, but the sword ofthe Lon;
bears the first rank; “ the sword of the Lord and of Gideon” (Judges
  18). The sword of a conquerer is the sword of the Lord, and
receives its charge and commission from the glreat Sovereign (Jer.
xlvii. 6, 7); We are apt to confine our thoug ts to second causes,
lay the fault upon the miscarriages of persons, the ambition of the
one, and the covetousness of another, and regard them not as the
efects of God’s sovereign authority, linking second causes together
to serve his own purpose. 'I'he skill of one man may lay open thi
I' Josephus.

