on sons nommou. 415
folly of a counsellor; an earthly force may break in pieces the wer
of a mighty prince: but Job, m his consideration of those things,
refers the matter higher: “He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth
their loins with a girdle” (Job, xii. 18). “He looseth the bonds of
' ” i. e. takes off the yokes they lay upon their subjects, “ and
' their loins with a ' dle" (a cord, as the vulgar); he la s iapon
em those fetters they Famed for others; such a. ' dle, or ban , as
is the mark of captivity, as the words, ver. 19, congiin it: “ He leads
princes away sploiled, and overthrows the mighty." God lifts up
some to a at eight, and casts down others to a disgraceful ruin.
All those gxlnges in the face of the world, the revolutions of empires,
thedesolating and ravaging wars, which are often immediately the
birth of the vice, ambition, and fur of princes, are the royal acts of
God as Governor of the world. gil glovernment belongs to him;
he is the Fountain of all the great an the petty dominions in the
world; and, therefore, may place in them what substitutes and vice-
gerents he pleaseth, as a prince may remove his oiiicers at pleasure,
and take their commissions from them. The highest are settled by
God dwrante bane lacito, and not guarndiu bam se geaserint. Those
princes that havelxaen the gloriy o their country have swayed the
sceptre but a short time, when t e more wolvish ones have remained
longer in commission, as God hath seen Ht for the ends of his own
sovereign government. Now, by the revolutions in the world, and
changes in governors and government, God keeps up the acknowl-
ed ent of his sovereignty, when he doth arrest grand and public
odgiilders that wear a crown by his providence, and employ it, b
their pride, against him that placed it there. When he arraigns such
b a signal hand from heaven, he makes them the public exam les
oi? the rights of his soverei]g`nty, declaring thereby, that the cedars
of Lebanon are as much at 's foot, as the shrubs of the valley; that
he hath as sovereign an authority over the throne in the palace, as
over the stool in t e cottage.
2. The dominion of G is manifested in raising up and ordering
the spirits of men according to his pleasiue. He oth, as the Father
of spirits, communicate an inhuence to the spirits of men, as well as
an existence; he puts what inclinations he pleaseth into the will,
stores it with what habits he please, whether natural or supernatural,
whereby it may be rendered more ready to act according to the Di-
vine purpose. The will of man is a Hnite principle, and therefore
sub`ect to Him who hath an infinite sovereignty over all things; and
G-od, having a sovereignty over the will, in the manner of its acting,
causeth it to will what he wills, as to the outward act, and the out-
ward manner of performing it. There are many examples of this
piart of his sovereignty. od, by his sovereign conduct, ordered
oses a protectoress as soon as his parents had formed an “ark of bul-
rushes,” wherein to set him floating on the river (Exod. ii. 3-6): they
expose him to the waves, and the waves expose him to the view of
Pl1aroah’s daughter, whom God, by his secret orcleriu her motion,
had posted in that place; and though she was the daughter of a
prince that inveterately hated the whole nation, and had, by various
arts, endeavored to extirpate them, yet God inspires the royal lady

