416 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
with sentiments of compassion to the forlorn infant, though she knew
him t/o be one of the Hebrews’ children (ver. 6), i. e. one of that race
whom her father had devoted to the hands of the executioner; yet
God, that doth by his sovereignty rule over the spirits of all men,
moves her to take that infant into her protection, and nourish him at
her own charge, give him a liberal education, adopt him as her son,
who, in time, was to be the ruin of her race, and the saviour of his
nation. Thus he appointed Cyrus to be his shepherd, and gave him
a pastoral spirit for the restoration of the city and temple of Jeru-
sa em (Isa. xliv. 28): and Isaiah (chap. xlv. 5) tells t em, in the
prophecy, that he had girded him, though Cyrus had not known
im, i. e. God had given him a military spirit and strength for so
great an attempt, though he did not know that he was acted by God
or those divine urposes. And when the time came for the house
of the Lord to be rebuilt, the sgrits of the eople were raised up,
not by themselves, but by God( zra, i. 5), “ €Vhose spirit God had
raise to go u ;” and not only the s irit of Zerubbabel, the magis-
trate, and of fbshua, the priest, but the s irit of all the people, from
the highest to the meanest that attended him, were acted by God to
strengthen their hands, and promote the work (Hag. i. 14). The
spirits of men, even in those works which are natural y desirable to
t em, as the restoration of the city and rebuilding of the Temple was
to those Jews, are acted b God, as the Sovereign over them, much
more when the wheels ofymen’s spirits are lifted up above their or-
dinary temper and motion. It was this empire of God good Nehe-
miah regarded, as that whence he was to hope for success; he did
not assure himself so much of it, from the favor he had with the
king, nor the reasonableness of his intended petition, but the abso-
lute power God had over the heart of that great monarch; and, there-
fore, he supplicates the heavenly, before e etitioned the earthly,
throne (N eh.   4): “So I pra ed to the (god of heaven." ` The
heathens had some Elance of tliis; it is an expression that Cicero
hath somewhere, “ T at the Roman commonwealth was rather gov-
erned by the assistance of the Supreme Divinity over the hearts of
men, than by their own counsels and management.” How o&en hath
the feeble courage of men been heightened to such a pitch as to stare
death in the face, which before were damped with the least thought
or glance of it! This is a fruit of God’s sovereign dominion.
3. The dominion of God is manifest in restraining the furious
assions of men, and putting a block in their way. Sometimes God
goth it by a remarkable hand, as the Babel builders were diverted
from their proud design by a sudden confusion of their language,
and rendering it unintelligible to one another; sometimes b ordi-
narg, though unexpected, means; as when Saul, like a hawli, was
rea y to prey uplon David, whom he had hunted as a partridge upon
the mountains, e had another object presented for his arms and
fury by the Philistines’ sudden invasion of a part of his territory (1
Sam. xxiii. 26-28). But it is chiefiy seen y an inward curbing
mutinous affections, when there is no visible cause. What reason
but this can be rendered, whyrthe nations borde ' on Canaan, who
bore no good will to the J ews,.but rather wisheldntgie whole race ot

