ON oor>'s DOMINION. 417
them rooted out from the face of the earth, should not invade their
country, pillage their houses, and plunder their cattle, while they
were left naked of any human defence, the males being annually
employed at one time at Jerusalem in worship; what reason can be
rendered, but an invisible curb God put into their spirits? What
was the reason not a man, of all the buyers and sellers in the Tem
ple, should rise against our Saviour, when, with a high hand, he be-
gan to whip them out, but a Divine bridle upon them? though it ap-
pears, by t e uestioning his authority, that there were Jews enough
to have chased out him and his company (John,   15, 18). What
was the reason that, at the publishing the gospel b the apostles at
the ‘first descent of the Spirit, those that had used tlie Master so bar-
barousl a few days before, were not all in a foam against the ser-
vants, that, by reaching that doctrine, upbraided them with the late
murder? Hadpthey better sentiments of the Lord, whom they had
put to death? Were their natures grown tamer, and their malignity
expelled? No; but that Sovereign who had loosed the reins of
their malicious corruption, to execute the Master for the purchase of
redem tion, curbed it from breaking out against the servants, to fur-
ther the propagation of _the doctrine of redemption. He that re~
strains the roaring lion of hell, restrains also his whelps on earth;
he and they must have a commission before they can ut forth a
finger to hurt, how malicious soever their nature and wil)l_be. His
empire reaches over the malignigy of devils, as well as the nature of
beasts. The lions out of the en, as well as those in the den, a.1e
bridled by him in favor of his Daniels. His dominion is above that
of princi alities and powers; their decrees are at his mercy, whether
they shall stand or fall; he hath a vote above their stiifest resolves:
his single word, I will, or, I forbid, outweighs the most resolute pur-
poses of all the mighty Nimrods of the earth in their rendezvouses
and cabals, in their associations and counsels (Isa. viii. 9, l0): “As-
sociate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces;
take counsel together, and it shall come to nought.” “When the
enemy shall come in like a flood,” with a violent and irresistible
force, intending nothing but ravage and desolation, “the Spirit of
the Lord shall lift up a standard against them" (Isa. lix. 19), shall
give a sudden check, and damp their spirits, and put them to a stand.
When Laban furiously pursued Jaco , with an intent to do him an
ill turn, God gave him a command to do otherwise (Gen. xxxi. 24).
Would Laban have respected that command any more than he did
the light of nature when he worshipped idols, had not God exercised
his authority in inclining his will to observe it, or laying restraints
upon his natural inclinations, or denying his concourse to the acting
those ill intentions he had entertained? The stilling the princi les
of commotion irr men, and the noise of the sea, are arguments oi`Ii;he
Divine dominion; neither the one nor the other is in the power of
the most sovereign prince without Divine assistance: as no prince
can command a calm to a raging sea, so no prince can order stillness
to a tumultuous people; they are both put together as equally parts
of the Divine rerogative (Ps. lxv. 7), which “stills the noise of the
sea, and tumulis of the people :” and David owns God’s sovereignty
vor.. rr.-27

