  CHARNOCK ON THE ATPRIBUTE8.
more than his own, “in subduing the people under him"   xvlu.
47). In this his em ire is illustrious (Ps. xxix. 10): “ he Lord
sitteth upon the floods, (yea, the Lord; sitteth Kin for ever ;” a King
impossib e to be depose , not only on the natural iloods of the sea,
that would naturally overHow the world, but the metaphorical Hoods
or turnults of the people, the sea in every wicked man s heart, more
apt to rage morally than the sea to foam naturall . If you will take
t e interpretation of an angel, waters and floods, in the prophetic
style, signify the inconstant and mutable people (Rev. xvii. 1, 5):
“ he waters where the whore sits are people, and multitudes, and
nations, and tongues :” so the angpl expounds to John the vision
which he saw (ver. 1% The heat ens acknowledged this part of
God’s sovereigntiy in t e inward restraints of men: those apparitions
of the gods an goddesses in Homer, to several of the great men
when they were in a fury, were nothing else, in the judgment of the
wisest philosophers, than an exercise of God’s sovereignty in quelling
their passions, checking their uncomely intentions, an controlling
them m that which their rage prompted them to. And, indeed, di
not God set bounds to the storms inmenls hearts, we should soon see
the funpirall, not lpnly of `reli%on,;>ut civility; the one would be blown
out,an teot ertornu teroots.
4. The dominion of Go}d isymanifest in defeating the purposes and
devices of men. God often makes a mock of human projects, and
doth as well accomplish that which they never dreamt of as disa
point that which t ey confidently desi ed. He is resent at all
cabals, laughs at mens formal and stuiiixed counsels, bears a hand
over every egg they hatch, thwarts their best comlpacted designs,
supplants their contrivances, breaks the engines t ey have been
many years rearing, diverts the intentions of men, as a might wind
blows an arrow from the mark which the archer intended. (yi ob, v.
12): “He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands
cannot perform their enterprise; he taketh the wise in their own
craftiness, and the counse of the froward is carried headlong."
Enemies often draw an exact scheme of their intended proceedinis,
marshal their companies, appoint their rendezvous, tlunk to m e
but one morsel of t ose they ate; God, b his sovereign dominion,
turns the scale, changeth the gloominess oiy the oppvigressed into a sim-
shine, and the enemies’ slmshine into darkness. hen the nations
were gathered together against Sion, and said, “Let her be defiled,
and let our eye look upon Sion” (Micah, iv. 11), what doth God do
in this case? (Iver. 12), “He shall gather them,” i. c. those conspiring
nations, as “s eaves into the floor.” Then he soimds a trumpet to
Sion: “ Arise, and thresh, O daughter of Sion, for I will make thy
horn iron, and th hoois brass, and thou shalt beat in ,pieces many
people; and I   consecrate their gain unto the Lo , and their
substance unto the Lord of the whole earth.” I will make them and
their counsels, them and their strength, the monuments and signal
marks -of my empire over the whole earth. When you see the cun-
ningest designs bafiled by some small thing intervening; when you
see men of profound wisdom infatuated, mistake their way, and
“grope in the noon-day as in the night" (Job, v. 14),`bewildered in

