on _con’s nommon. 419
a plain way; when you see the hopes of mighty attempters dashed
into despair, their tnunlilphs turned into funerals, and their joyful ex-
gectations into sorrowf disappointments; when you see the weak,
evoted to destruction, victorious, and the most presumptuous de-
feated in their iuposes, then read the Divine dominion in the deso~
lation of such devices. How often doth God take away the heart
and spirit of grand designs, and burst a mighty wheel, by snatching
but one man out of the world! How often doth he “cut of the
spirits of princes” (Ps. lxxvi. 12), either from the world by death, or
from the execution of their projects by some unforeseen interruption,
or from favoring those contrivances, which before they cherished by
a change of theu' minds! How often hath confidence in God, and
religious prayer, edged the weakest and smallest number of weapons
to make a carnage of the carnally confident! How often hath re-
sumption been disappointed, and the contemned enemy rejoiced) in
the spoils of the proud expectant of victory! Phidias made the
ima e of Nemesis, or Revenge, at Marathon, of that marble which
the haughty Persians, despising the weakness of the Athenian forces,
brought with them, to erect a trophy for an expected, but an un-
gained., victory." Haman’s neck, by a sudden turn, was in the
alter, when the J ews’ necks were designed to the block; Julian de-
signed the overthrow of all the Christians, just before his breast was
pierced by an unexpected arrow; the Powder-traitors were all ready
to give fire to the mine, when the sovereign hand of Heaven snatched
away the match. Thus the great Lord of the world cuts off men on
the pinnacle of their designs, when they seem to threaten heaven and
cart 1; puts out the candle of the wicked, which they thought to use
to light them to the execution of their p ses; turns their own
counsels into a curse to themselves, and aublllgdsing to their adversa-
ries, and makes his greatest enemies contribute to the effecting his
purposes. How may we take notice of God’s absolute disposal of
things in private affairs, \vhen we see one man, with a small measure
of prudence and little industry, have great success, and others, with
a greater measure of wisdom, and a greater toil and labor, find their
enterprises melt between their ‘ringersl It was Solomon’s observa-
tion, “ That the race was not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,
neither bread to the wise, nor riches to men of understanding, nor
yet favor to men of skill” (gccles. ix. 11). Many things might in-
terpose to stop the swift in is race, and damp the courage of the
most valiant: things do not happen according to men’s abilities, but
according to the overruling authority of God: God never 'et granted
man the dominion of his own way, no more than to be lord of his
own time: “ The way of man is not in himself] it is not in him that
walkcth to direct his steps” (Jer. x. 23). He hath given man a power
of acting, but not the sovereignty to command success. He makes
even those things which men intended for their securit to turn to
their ruin; Pilate delivered up Cluist to be accounted' a friend to
Caesar, and Crnsar soon after proves an enemy to him, removes him
from his government, and sends him into banishment. The Jews
imagined by the crucifying Christ to keep the Roman ensigns at a
' Causin. Symb. lib. ii. can. 65.

