420 cnxmvocn ON 'rum yrrarsurss.
distance from them, and this hasted their march., by God’s sovereign
dis osali which ended in a total desolation. “He makes the judges
fool;"( ob, xxii. 17), by taking away his light from their under-
standing, and sufermg them to go on in the vanity of their own
spirits, that his sovereignty in the management of things may be
more a parent; for then he is known.to be Lord, when he “snares
the wicgred in the work of his own hands” (Ps. ix. 16). You have
seen much of this doctrine in your experience, and, if my judgment
fail me not, you will yet see much more.
5. The dominion of God is manifest in sending his judgments upon
whom he please. “He kills and makes alive; he wounds and heals”
Whom he pleaseth: his thunders are his own, and he may cast them
upon what subjects he thinks good: he hath a right, in a way of jus-
tice, to punish all men; he hath his choice, in a way of sovereignty,
to pick out whom he please, to make the examples of it. Might not
some nations be as wicked as those of Sodom and Gomorrah, yet
have not been scorched with the like dreadful flames? Zoar was
untouched, while the other cities, her neighbors, were burnt to
ashes. Were there never any laces and persons successors in So-
do1n’s guilt? Yet those onliy gy his sovereign authority are sepa--
rated by him to be the exam es of his “ eterna vengeance ’ (Jude, 7).
Why are not sinners as Sodom, like as those ancient ones, scalded
to death by the like Hery drops? It is because it is his pleasure;
and the same reason is to be rendered, whiy he would in a way of
justice cut oif the Jews for their sins, an leave the Gentiles unf
touched in the mids't of their idolatries. When the church was con-
sumed because of her iniquities, they acknowledged God’s sovereign-
ty in this. “We are the claly, and thou art our Potter, and we all
t e work of thy hands”   xiv. 7, 8); thou hast a liberty to break
or preserve us. Judgments move according to Grod’s order. When
the sword hath a charge against Ashkelon and the sea-shore, thither
it must march, and touch not any other place or person as it goes,
though there mialy be demerit enough for it to punish. When the
prop et had sp e to the sword, “O thou sword of the Lord, how'
ong will it be ere thou be quiet? put up thyself into thy scabbard,
rest and be still ;” the prophet answers for the sword, “How can it be
fipiet, seeing the Lord hath given it a charge against Ashkelon?
' ere.hath e appointed it” (Jer. xlvii. 6, 7). If -he hath appointed
a judgment against London or Westminster, or any other place,
there it shall drop, there it shall pierce, and in no other place with-
out a like charge. God, as a sovereign, gives instructions to every
judgment, when, and against whom, it shall march, and what cities,
what persons, it shall arrest; and he is punctualiy obeyed by them,
as a sovereign Lord. All creatures stand ready or his call, and are
piepared to be executioners of his vengeance, when he speaks the
word; they are his hosts by creation, and in array for his service:
at the sound of his trumpet, or beat of his drum, they troop together
with arms in their hands, to put his orders exactly in execution.
6. The dominion of God is manifest in appointing to every man
his calling and station in the world. If the hairs of every man’s
head tall under his sovereign care, the calling of every man, wherein

