_ on sons :oou1N1oN. 421
he is to glorify God and serve his generation, which is of a greater
concern than the hairs of the head, alls under his dominion. He is
the master of the great family, and divides to every one his work as
he pleaseth. The whole work of the Messiah, t e time of every
zctionh as well as the hour of his passion, was ordered and appointed
y Go . The separation of Paul to the reaching of the gospel was
by the sovereign disposal of God (Rom.   lg. By the same exercise
of l1is(autl1ority, that he “sets every man t e bounds of his habita-
tion” Acts, xvii. 26 he prescribes also to him the nature of his
work. He that ordered Adam, the father of mankind, his work,
and the place of it, the “dressing the garden” (Gen. ii. 15), doth not
let any of his posterity be their own choosers, without an influence
of his sovereign direction on them. Though our callings are our
work, yet they are by God’s order, wherein we are to be faithful to
our great Master and Ruler.
7. The dominion of God is manifest in the means and occasions
of men’s conversion. Sometimes one occasion, sometimes another;
one word lets a man go, another arrests him, and brings him before
God and his own conscience; it is as God gives out the order. He
lets Paul be a prisoner at Jerusalem, that is cause should not be
determined there; moves him to appeal to Caesar, not only to make
him a prisoner, but te. preacher, in Caesar’s court, arid render his
c aius an occasion to ring in a harvest of converts in ero’s alace.
His bonds in or for Christ are “manifest in all the palace” (ghil.-i.
12, 132; not the bare knowledge of his bonds, but the sovereign de-
si o 'God in those bonds an the success of them ' the bare knowl-
eciile of them would not make others more confideht for the gospel,
as it follows, ver. 14, without a providential design of them. Ones-
imus, running from his master, is guided by God’s sovereign order
into Paul’s company, and thereby mto Chr1st’s arms; and he who
came a fugitive, returns a Christian (Philem. 10, 15). Some, by a
strong affliction, have had by the Divine sovereignty their un er~
standings awakened to consider, and their wills spirited to conver-
sion. Monica being called Meribibula, or toss- ot was brought to
consider her way, and reform her life. A word liath done that at
one time, which hath often before fallen without any fruit. Many
have come to suck in the eloquence of the minister, and have found
in the honey for their ears a sting for their consciences. Austin had
no other intent in oing to hear Ambrose but to have a taste of his
famous oratori. gut while Ambrose spake a language to his ear,
God spake a eavenly dialect to his heart. N o reason can be ren-
dered ofthe order, and timing, and influence of those thingsabut the
sovereign leasure of God w o will attend one occasion an season
with his biessing, and not another.
8. The dominion of God is manifest in disposing of the lives of
men. He keeps the key of death, as well as that of the womb, in
l1is_own hand; he hath given man a life, but not power to dispose
of lt, or lay it down at his pleasure; and therefore he hath ordered
man not to murder, not another, not himself; man must expect his
call angagrant, to dispose of the life of his body. Why doth he cut
the thr of this man’s life, and spin another’s out to a longer term?

