522 CHARNOCK ON THE A'|.'1‘B.IBU'1’E§.
Why doth one die an inglorious death, and another more honorable?
One silently drops away in the multitude, while another is made a
sacrifice for the onor of God, or the safety of his country. This is
a mark of honor he gives to one and not to another. “To you it is
iven7’ (Phil. i. 29). The manner of Peter’  death was appointed
Elohn, xxi. 19). Why doth a small and slight disease. against
the rulcs of physic, an the judgment of the best practitioners, dis-
lodge one man’s soul out of his body, while a greater disease is
mastered in another, and discharges ,the ~ atient, to enjoy himself a
longer time in the land of the living? ll; it the .eifect of means so
much as of the Sovereign Dis oser of all things? If means only
did it, the same means would) always work the same effect, and
sooner master a dwarfish than a giant-like distemper. “Our times
are only in God’s hands” (Ps. xxxi. 15) ;' either to cut short or con-
tinue long. As his sovereignty made the first marriage knot, so he
reserves the sole authority to himself to make the divorce. .
' Fcrwdtly. The dominion of God is manifest in his being a. Re-
deemer, as well as Lawgiver, Proprietor, and Governor. His
sovereignty was manifest in the creation, in bestowing upon this or
that part of matter a form more excellent than upon another( He
was a Lawgiver to men and angels, and reseribed them rules ac-
cording to the counsel of his own will. ilfhese were his creatures,
and perfectly at his disposal. But in redemption a sovereignty is
exercised over the Sou, the Second person in the Trinity, one equal
with the Father in essence and works, by whom the worlds were
created, and b whom they do consist. The whole gospel is nothing
else but a. decliiration of his sovereign pleasure concerning Christ,
and concerning us in him; it is therefore called “ the mystery of his
will” (Eph. i. 9); the will of God is distinct from the will of Christ,
a purpose in himself; not moved thereunto by any; the whole
design was framed in the Deity, and as much the purpose of his
sovereign will as the eontrivance of his immense wisdom. He de-
creed, in his own leasure, to have the Second Person assume our
nature for to deliver mankind from that misery whereinto it
was fallen. The whole of the gospel, and the privile of it, are in
_that chapter resolved into the will and pleasure oigeéod. God is
therefore called “ the head of Christ" (1 Cor. xi. 3). As Christ is
superior to all men, andthe man superior to the woman, so is God
superior to Christ, and of a more eminent dignity; in regard of the
constituting him mediator, Christ is subject to God, as the body to
the head. “ Head" is a title of government and sovereignty,
and magistrates were called the “heads” of the peo le. As Christ
is the head of man, so is God the head of Christ; and) as man is sub~
ject to Christ, so is Christ subject to God; not in regard of the Di-
vine nature, wherein there is an equality, and consequently no do-
minion of jurisdiction; nor only in his human nature, but in the
economy of a Redeemer, considered as one designed, and consenting
to be incarnate, and take our Hash; so that after this fufreement,
God had a sovereign right to dispose of him according to the articles
cemented to. In regard of his undertaking, and the advantage he
was to .bring to the e ect of God upon the earth, he calls God by the

