on oorvs unounnos. 428
solemn title of “his Lord" in that 'prophetic psalm of him (Ps. xvi.
2): “ 0 my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord:
my goodness extends not unto thee, but unto the saints that are in
the earth.” It seems to be the speech of Christ in heaven, mention-
ing the saints on earth as at a distance from him. I can add nothing
to the glory of thy majest , but the whole fruit of my meditation
and su erings will redouml, to the saints on earth. And it may be
observed, that God is called the Lord of Hosts in the evangelical
protphets, Isaiah, Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi, more in reference
to is affair of redemption, and the deliverance of the church, than
for any other works o ~his providence in the world.
1. This sovereignty of God pears, in requiring satisfaction for
the sin of man. Had he indiilllged man after his fall, and remitted
his ofenee without a just compensation for the in`ury he had
received by his rebellion, his authority had been viliiied, man would
always have been attempting against his jurisdiction, there would
have been acontinual suceesion of rebellions on man’s part; and if a
continual succession of indulgences on God’s part, he had uite dis-
owned his authority over man, and stripped himself of the (dower of
his crown; satisfaction must have been required some time or other
from the person thus rebelling, or some other in his stead; and to
require it after the Qrst act of sin, was more preservative to the right
of the Divine sovereignty, than to do it a&er a multitude of re eated
revolts. God must have laid aside his authority if he had laicl) aside
wholl the exacting punishment for the offence of man.
2. 'lhis sovereignty of God appears, in appointing Christ to this
work of redemption. _His sovereignty was before manifest over
angels and men b the right of creation; there was nothing wanting
to declare the highest charge of it, but -his ordering his own Son to
'become a morta.l creature; the Lord of all things to become lower
than those angels -that had, as well as all other things, received their
being and beauty from him, and to be reckoned in his death among
the dust 'and refuse of the world: he by whom God created al
thin , not only became -a man, but a crucihed man, by the will of
his lézther (Ga . i. 4),- “ who gave himself for our sins according to
the will of God;” to which may refer that expression (Prev. viii.
22), of his being “possessed by God in the beginning of his way.”
Possession is the dominion bf a thing invested in the possesser; he
was possessed, indeed, as a Son by eternal generation; he was pos-
sessed also in the beginning of his way or works of creation, as a
-Mediator by s cial constitution: to this the expression seems to re-
fer, if you rearle on to the end of ver. 31, wherein Christ spleaks of
his “rejoicin in the habitable part of his earth," the cart of the
great God, who hath designed him to this special work of redemp-
tion. He was a Son by nature, but'a Mediator by Divine will ; in
regard of which Christ is often called God’s servant, which is a rela-
tion to God as a Lord. God being the Lord of all things, the do-
minion of all thin s inferior to him is inseparable from him; and in
-this regard, the whole of what Christ was to do, and did actually dlo,
was acted by him as the will of God, and is expressed so by himse
.in the prophecy (Ps. xl. 7), “ Lo, I comeg" (ver. 8), “I delight to do

