424 cmaxocx ON THE A'I'l'RIBU'1‘ES.
thy will ;” which are put together éHeb. x. 7), “ Lo, I come to do
thy will, O God.” T e designing hrist to this work was an act of
mercy, but founded on his sovereignty. His compassionate bowels
might have pitied us without his being sovereign, but without it
could not have relieved us. It was the council of his own will, as
well as of his bowels: none was his counsellor or pelsuader to tha*
mercy he showed: (Rom. xi. 34), “Who hath been his counsellor ?'
for it refers to that mere in “sending the Deliverer out of Sion'
(ver. 26), as well as to otlier things the apostle had been discoursing
of As God was at liberty to create, or not to create, so he was at
liberty to redeem or not to redeem, and at his liberty whether to ap»
point Christ to this work, or not'to call him out to it. In giving
this order to his Son, his sovereignty was exercised in a higher man-
ner than in all the orders and instructions he hath given out to men
or angels, and all the employments he ever sent them upon. Christ
hath names which signify an authority over him: he is called “ an
£;1;gel,” and a “Messenger” (Mal. iii. 1); an “ Aplostle” (Heb. iii. 1):
aring thereby, that God hath as much aut ority_ over him as
over the angels sent upon his messages, or over the apostles com-
missioned by his authority, as he was considered in the quality of
Mediator.
8. This sovereignty of God appears in transferring our sins u on
Christ. The supreme power in a nation can only appoint or allow
of a commutation of punishment; it is a part of sovereignty to
transfer the enalty due to the crime of one upon another, and sub-
stitute a sufilirer, with the suH`erer’s own consent, in the place of 8
criminal, whom he had a mind to deliver from a deserved punish-
ment. God transferred the sins of men upon Christ, and indicted on
him a unishment for them. He summed up the debts of man,
charged) them upon the score of Christ, imputing to him the guilt,
and inilicting upon him the penalty. Slsa. liii. 6): “The Lord hath
laid u on him the iniquity of us a.ll;’ he made them all to meet
upon his back: “He hath made him to be sin for us” (2 Cor. v. 21);
he was made so by the sovereign pleasure of God: a punishment for
sin, as most understand it, which could not be righteously inflicted,
had not sin been Hrst ri hteousl imputed, b the consent of' Christ,
and the order of the J ugge of tlire world. This imputation could be
the immediate act of none but God, because he was the sole creditor.
A creditor is not bound to accept of another’s suretyship, but it is at
his liberty whether he will or no; and when he doth accept of him,
he may challenge the debt of him, as if he were the princiixl debtor
himselfi Christ made himself sin for us by a voluntary su mis<ion;
and God made him sin for us by a full imputation, and treated him
penally, as he would have done those sinners in whose stead he suii
ered. 'Without this act of sovereignty in God, we had forever
perished: for if we could su pose Christ laying down his life for us
without the pleasure and order of God, he could not have been said
to have borne our punishment. What could he have undergone in
his humanity but a tem ral death? But more than this was due
to us, even the wrath ofP0God, which far exceeds the calamity of a
mere bodily death. The soul being principal in the crime, was to

