’ ON eon's DOMINION. 425
he principal in the punishment. The wrath of God could not have
dropped upon his soul, and rendered it so full of agonics, without
the and of God: a. creature is not capable to reach t e soul, neither
as to comfort nor terror; and the justice of God could not have made
him a suiferer, if it had not Hrst considered him a sinner by imputa-
tion, or bv inherency, and actual commission of a crime in his own
person. The latter was far from Christ, who was holy, harmless,
and undefiled. He must be considered then in the other state of
imputation, which could not be without a sovereign appointment, or
at east concession of God: for without it, he could have no more
authority to lay down his life for us, than Abraham could have had to
have sacrifice his son, or any man to expose himself to death without
a call; nor could any plea have been entered in the court of heaven,
either by Christ for us, or b us for ourselves. And though the
death of so great a person had’ been meritorious in itself; it had not
been meritorious for us, or accepted for us; Christ is “ delivered up
by him” (Rom. viii. 32), in every part of that condition wherein he
was, and suffered; and to that end, that “we might become the
righteousness of God in him” (2 Cor. v. 21): that we might have the
righteousness of him that was God imputed to us, or that we might
have a righteousness as great and proportioned to the righteousness
of God, as God required. It was an act of Divine sovereignty to
account him that was righteous a sinner in our stead, and to account
us, who were sinners, righteous upon the merit of his death.
4. This was done b the command of God; by God as a Lawgiver,
having the`su rcme iiegislative and preceptive authority.: in 'which
respect, the wliole work of Christ is said to be an answer to a law,
not one given him, but ut into his heart, as the law of nature was
in the heart of man at first. (Ps. xl. 7, 8): “Thy law is within m
heart.” This law was not the law of nature or moral law, though
that was also in the heart of Christ, but the command of doing
those things which were necessary for our salvation, and not a com-
mand so much of doing, as of dying. The moral law in the heart
of Christ would have done us no good without the mediatory law;
we had been where we were by the sole observance of the precepts
of the moral law, without his suffering the penalty of it; the law in
the heart of Christ was the law of suffering, or dying, the doing that
for us by his death which the blood of sacrifices was unable to effect.
Legal “sacrifices thou wouldest not ; thy law is within my heart ;"
i. e. thy law ordered me to he a. sacrifice ; it was that law, is obedi~
ence to which was principally accepted and esteemed, and that was
principally his passive, his obedience to death (Phil. ii. 8) ; this was
the special command received from God, that he should die (John
x. 18), It is not so clearly manifested when this command was given,
whet er after the incarnation of Christ, or at the point of his consti~
tution as Mediator, u on the transaction between the Father and the
Son concerning the aiiair of redemption : the promise was given “ be-
fore the world began” ('I‘it. i. 2). Might not the precept be given,
before the world began, to Christ, as considered in the quality of
Mediator and Redeemer? Preceépts and ,promises usually attend one
another; every covenant is ma e up o both. Christ, considered

