423 CHARNOCK ON THE AITIBUTES.
here as the Son of God in the Divine natme, was not capable of A
command or promise; but considered in the relation of Mediator be-
tween God and man, he was ea able of both. Promises of amist-
ance were made before his actualpincarnatiomof which the Prophets
are full: wh not precepts for his obedience, since long before his
incarnation this was his speech in the Prophet, “ Thy law is within
my heart 1” however, a command, a law it was, which is a fruit of
the Divine sovereignty; that as the sovereign? of God was im-
peached and violated by the disobedience of dam, it might be
owned and vindicated by the obedience of Christ; that as we fell by
disloyalty to it, we might rise by the highest submission to it in an-
othgruhead, infinitely superior in his person to Adam, by whom
we e . r
5. This sovereignty of God appears in exalting Christ to such a
sovereign dignity as our Redeemer. Some, indeed, say, that this sov-
ereignt of Christ’s human nature was natural, and the right of it
resu ted’ from its union with the Divine; as a lad of mean condi-
tion, when espoused and married to a prince, hath, hy virtue of that,
a natural right to some kind of jurisdiction over the whole kingdom,
because she is one with the king! But to waive this; the Scriptiue
placeth wholly the conferring such an authority upon the leasure
and will of God. As Christ was a gift of God’s sovereign WSI to us,
so this was a gift of Grod’s sovereign will to Christ (Matt. xxviii. 28):
“All power is given me.” And he ‘gave him to be head over all
things to the c urch" (Eph. i. 22); “ od gave him a name above
every name” (Phil. ii. Qg; and, therefore, his throne he sits upon is
called “The throne of is Father” Sltev.   21). And he “commit-
ted all judgment to the Son,” i. e. al government and dominion; an
empire in heaven and earth (John, v. 2?; and that because he is “the
Son of Man” (ver. 27); which may un erstood, that the Father hath
given him authority to exercise that judgment and government as
the Son of Man, which he originally had as the Son of God; or
rather, because he became a servant, and humbled himself to death,
he gives him this authority as the reward of his obedience and hu~
mility, conformable to Phil. ii. 9. This is an act of the high sover-
eignty of God, to obscure his own authority in a sense, and take
into association with him, or vicarious subordination to him, the hu-
man nat1u°e of Christ as united to the Divine; not only lifting it
above the heads of all the an ls, but giving that person in our na-
ture an empire over them, wibse nature was more excellent than
ours: yea, the sovereignty of God appeals in the whole management
of this kingly otlice of C rist; for it is managed in every part of it
according to God’s order (Ezek. xxxvii. 2£ 25): “ David, my ser-
vant, shal be king over them,” and “my servant David shall he
their prince forever :” he shall be a prince over them, but my servant
in that princépality, in the exercise and duration of it. T e sover-
eignty of Go is paramount in all that Christ hath done as a priest,
or gnall do as a king.
ae I. For instruction.
1. How great is the contempt of this sovereignty of God! Mm
' L€|Qll1l, de Perfect. Diviu. lib. L p. 65.

