  1 -` on sons ncrrmron. 427
naturally would be 'free from God’s empire to be a slave under the
dominion of his own lust; the sovereignty of God, as a Lawgiver,
is mpst abgonedlgly man (Lei xxvi. 43). The IBI'8&€1l.l’BB, tlée beat
p e m t e wor were apt, nature, not on to' espise, ut a -
hz; his statutes; there- is not a law of God but the corrupt heart of
man hath an abhorrency of : how often do _men   that God had
not enacted! ttliis olr that aw that goes against the irainl and, in wislh-
1 so wis at e were no sovereign -or not suc asuverei n as e
igin his own nature, but one according to their corrupt-modei This
itZ"§.,g’$°‘““§".§‘ "°"§°’;hG§£5‘?§€“€”'€§i“iiiif’ iii' ‘hifi °‘?““ "°
v ign er. e o o n e in any
one   in thggvorld; God? von; phoiild not be predominant in
any one t 'ng. ere is not a aw o is ut is exposed to contem t
pil' the perverseness of man (Prov. i. 21) : “Ye have set at nouggt
l my counsel, and would have none of my re’proof:” Septuag. “ e
have made all my counsels without authonty/ . The nature of man
cannot endure one prose? of God, nor one rebuke from him; and
for this cause God is at t e expense of judgments in the world, to
assert his own empire to the teeth and consciences of men (Ps. lix.
E): “L3rd, leonsurple thggn   wrath, and   thgm know that god
esin aco,toteen otheeart.’ »e~ominionofGo is
not s1igh)ted_[bB_Z; any crslatmlei of thlisetvlrorld -lalzt man; eg others ob-»
serve it y o rving `s o er w erin eir natur motions or
preternatural irruptions ; they iunctually act according to their com-
mission. Man only speaks a `alect against the strain of the whole
won, atpd hathéione to imitate*   amonlgelall the creatures in
ven an earth, ut only among t ose in 1: man is more im~
patient of the gpllltle of God than of the yoke of man. There are
not so many re 'ons committed by inferiors against their superi-
ors and fel ow-creatures, as are committed against God. A w` ling
and easy sinniaglis an equalling the authority of God-to that of man
(Hoe. vi. 7 ): “ ey, like men, have transgressed my covenant ;” they
have made no more account- of breaking my covenant than if they
had broken some league or compact made with a mere- man; so
slightly do they esteem the authorngf of God; such a disesteem of
the Divine ant ority is a. virtual un eifying of him.P To slight his
sovereignty is to stab his Deity; smce the one cannot be preserved
Zithout tl§ support of gigs othir, his life woulél expirs witlrllléis au-
ority. ow use an rutis is it or vi e ust an mo ering
clay to lift up itself against the majesty of God, whose throne is in
tllie heavleéis, wh<;1swa¥1 hip s<?;ptal;1pver ailltpartgs oi' the Lvorlil)-a
ajesty forewom e evi s can e igestceruims
tremble l It is as if the thistle, that erin presently be trod down by
1;he foot of a wild beast, shoulgl think itsel r a match for the cedar of
iebanon, as the phrase is, 2 ings, xiv. 9.
Let us consider this in neral; and, also, inthe ordinary practice
of men. Fir In genera?
(1.) All sinnin its nature is a contempt of the Divine dominion.
As every act of obedience is a confirmation of the law, 'and conse-
quently a. subscription of the authority of the Lawgiver (Deut. xxvii.
P Munster.

