428 cnA_aNocx ON 'ran srrarsurns.
26), so every breach to it is a conspiracy against the sovereignty of
the Lawgiver; settinglup our will against the will of God is an arti-
»cling against his aut ority, as setting up our reason against the
methods of Grod`is an articling against his wisdom; the intendment
of every act of sin is to wrest the sceptre out of God’s hand. The
authority of God is the 'first attribute in the Deity which it directs
its edge against; it is called, therefore, a “transgression of his law”
3 John, iii. 4), and, therefore, a slight, or neglect, of the majesty of
od; and the not keeping his commands 1B called a “ forgettin
God” (Dent. viii. 11), i. e. a forgetting him to be our absolute Long
As the first notion we have of God as a Creator is that of his sover-
eignty, so the first perfection that sin struck at, in the violation of
the law, was his sovereignty as a Lawgiver. “Breaking the law is
a dishonoring God” (Rom. ii. 23), a snatching off his crown; to obey
our own wills before the will of God, is to prefer ourselves as our
own sovereigns before him. Sin is a wrong, and injury to God, not
in his essence, that is above the reach of a creature, nor in anything
profitable to him, or pertaining)to his own intrinsic advantage; not
an inlylury to_ God _in himself] _ut IH. his authority, m those things
,whlc pertain to his glor ; a dlsowning his due right, and not using
his goods according to his will. Thus the whole world may be
called, as God calls Chaldea, “ a land of rebels” (Jer. 1, 21): “Go
up against the land of Merathaim," or rebels: rebels, not against the
Jews, but against God. The mighty o position in the heart of man
to the supremacy of God is discovered) emphatically by the apostle
gem. viii. 7) in that expression, “The carnal mind is enmity against
od, i. e. against the authority of God, because “it is not subject to
the law of God, neither indeed can be.” It refuseth not subjection
to this or that part, but to the whole; to every mark of Divine au-
thority in it; it will not lay down its arms against it, nay, it cannot
but stand nlpon its terms against it; the law can no more be fulfilled
gyoda cami] lmigd, iilhan it canl be disovgned by a soszpreign God.
isso o , at e cannotatera rig teous aw, an man is so
averse, that hz; cares not for, nay, cannot full, one title; so much
doth the nature of man swell against the maj ty of God. N ow an
enmity to the law, which is in every sin, implies a perversity against
the authority of God that enacted it.
_ (2.) All_s1n, in its nature, is the despoiling God of_ his sole sover-
elgnty, which was probably the first thing the devil aimed at. That
pride was the sin of the evil, the Scripture gives us some account
of when the a ostle adviseth not a novice, or one that hath but
lately embraced’ the faith, to be chosen abishop (1 Tim. iii. 6), “ Lest,
being lifted up with pride, he fall into the wndemnation of the
devil ;” lest he fall into the same sin for which the devil was con-
demned. But in what particular thing this ride was manifest, is
not so easily discernible; the ancients generallly conceived it to be
an aifectin the throne of God, grounding it on Isa. xiv. 12 : “ How
art thou fallen, O Lucifer, son of the morning! for thou hast said in
thy heart, I will ascend into _heaven, I will exalt my throne above
the stars of God.” It is certain the prophet  peaks there of the king
of Babylon, and taxeth him for his pride, and gives to him the title

