v
ON oo1>’s 1>omN1oN. 429
of “Lucifer,” perhaps likening him in his ride to the devil, and
then it notes plainly the particular sin of ilie devil, attempting a
share in the sovereignty of God; and some strengthen their conjec-
ture from the name of the archangel who conten ed against Satan
(Jude, 9), which is Michael, which signifies, “Who as God?" or,
“ Who like God ?" the name of the angel givin the superiority to
God, intirnating the contrary disposition in the devil, against whom
he contended. It is likely his sin was an affecting equaliiéy with
God in empire, or a freedom from the sovereign authority o God;
because he imprinted such a. kind of persuasion on man at his ‘first
temptation: “ Ye shall be as gods” (Gen. iii. 5); and though it be
restrained to the matter of knowledge, yet that being a fitness for
government, it may be extended to that also. But it is plainly a
persuading them, that they might be, in some sort, equal with God,
and independent on him as their superior. What he had found so
fatal to himself, he imagined would have the same success in the ruin
of man., And since the devil hath, in all ages of the world, usurped
a worship to himself which is onlv due to God, and would be served
by man, as if he were the God of the world; since all his endeavor
was to be worship ed as the Supreme God on earth, it is not unrea-
sonable to think, that he invaded the su remacy of God in heaven,
and endeavored to be like the Most Higli before his banishment, as
he hath attempted to be like the Most High since. And since the
devil and antichrist are reputed by John, in the Revelation, to be so
near of kin, and so like in disposition, why might not that, which is
the sin of antichrist, the image of him, be also the sin of Satan, “ to
exalt himself above all that is called God” (2 Thess. ii. 4);rand “sit
as God in his temple,” affecting a partnership in his t one and
worship? Whether it was this, or attempting an unaccountable do-
minion over created things, or because he was the prime angel, and
the most illustrious of that magnificent corporation, he might think
himself fit to reign with God over all things else? Or if his sin
were envy, as some think, at the felicity of man in paradise, it was
still a quarrelling with God’s dominion, and right o disposing his
own goods and favors; he is, therefore, called “ Belial” ( Cor. vi.
14, 15): “What concord hath Christ with Belial ?” i. e. with the
devil, one “without yoke,” as the word “ Belial” signifies.
(3.) It is more plain, that this was the sin of Adam. The first
act of Adam was to exercise a lordship over the lower creatures, in
giving names to them,-a token of dominion (Gen. ii. 19). The next
was to affect a lordship over God, in rebelling against him. After
he had writ the iirst mark of his own delegated dominion, in the
names he gave the creatures, and owned their dependence on him as
their governor, he would not acknowledge his own dependence on
God. As soon as the Lord of' the world had put him into possession
of the power he had allotted him, he attempted to strip his Lord of
that which he had reserved to himself; he was not content to lay a
yoke upon the other creatures, but desirous to shake oil' the Divine
yoke from himself] and be subject to none but his own will ; hence
Adam’s sin is more particularly called “ disobedience” (Rom. v. 19):
for, in the eating the apple, there was no moral evil in itself, but a

