$80 crmzrrocx ON rm: arrsrnurns.
contradiction tothe positive command-and order of God, whereb ' he
did disown God’s nght of commanding him, or reserving anything
from him to his own use. i The language all his posterity s s,
“ Let us break his bands, and cast awa his cords from us" Ps. ii.
3), was learned-from Adam in that act oiy his. The next act weread
oi] was that of Cain’s murdering Abel, which was an invading God’s
right, in assuming an authority to dispose of the life of his brother,
--a life which God had given him, and reserved the period of it in
his own hands. And he persists in the same usiupatron when God
came to examine him, and ask him .where his brother was.; how
soornful was his answer I (Gen. iv. 9) : “ Am I my brother’s keeper ?"
as much as if he had said, What have you to do to examine me? or,
What obligation is there u on me to render an account of him? or, as
one saith, it is as much as  he had said, “ Go, look for him yoursel£”\\
The sovereignty of God did not remain undisturbed as soon as ever
it appeared in creation ; the devils rebelled against it in heaven, and
man wo\1ld have banished it from the earth.
(4.) The sovereignty of God hath not been less invaded by the
usurpations of men. One single order of the Roman e isoopac
hath endeavored to us1u‘p the prerogatives of God; the gope  
prohibit what God hath allowed; the marriage of priests; the re-
ceiving of the cupiaas well as of the bread, in the sacrament; the
eating of this or t t sort of meat at special times, meats which God
hath sanctified; and tbrbid them, too, upon pain of damnation. It
is an invasion of God’s right to forbid the use of what God hath
granted, as though the earth, and the fulness thereof, were no longer
e Lord’s, but the Pope’s; much more to forbid what God hath
commanded, as if Christ overreached his own authorit ,when he en.
joined all to drink of the sacramental wine, as wellyas eat of the
sacramental bread. No lord but will think his right usurped b that
steward who shall permit to others what his lord forbids, and ibrbid
that which his master allows, and act the lord instead of the servant.
Add to this the gardens of man sins, as if he had the sole key to
the treasures of ivine mercy; the disposin of crowns and domin-
ions at his pleasure, as if God had diveste<§ himself of the title of
King of kings, and transferred it upon the see of Rome. The allow~
ing public stews, dispensing with incestuous marriages, as if God had
acts more .thedpaart of a tyrant than of a righteous Sovereign in for-
bidding them, priving t e Jews of the propriety in their estates
upon t eir conversion to Christianity, as if the pilfering men’s goods
were the way to teach them self-denial, the first doctrine of Christian
religion; and God shall have no honor from the Jew without a
breach of his law by theit from the Christian. Granting many
years’ indulgenoes upon slight performances, the repeating so many
.Ave-Maria; and Paw:-Nosters in a day, canonizing. saints, claimin
the keys of heaven, and   of t e honors and glory of it, and
proposing creatures as objects o religious worship, wherein he an-
swers the character of the apostle (2 hess. ii. 4), “showing himself
that he is God,” in challenging that power which is only the right
of Divine sovereignty; exalting himself above God, in indulging
q Trap. in Ds.

