ON eon's nourN1oN. 431
those things which the (law of God never allowed, but hath severely
prohibited. This controlling the sovereignty of God, _not allowing
im the ri hts of his crown, is the soul and spirit of many errors.
Why are time decrees of election and preterition denied? Because
men   not acknowledge God the Sovereign Disposer of his crea-
ture. Why is effectual calling and edicacious race denied? Be-
cause they will not allow God the proprietor an% distributer of his
own goods. Why is the satisfaction of Christ denied? Because
they will not allow God a power to vindicate his own law in what
way he pleaseth. Most of the errors of men may be resolved into a
denial of God’s sovereignty ; all have a tincture of the Brst evil sen-
timent of Adam. ‘
Secondly. The sovereignty of God is contemned in the practices of
men-(li/) As he is a Lawgzizer.
[1.] hen laws are made, and \u°ged in any state contrary to the
law of God. It is part of God’s sovereignty to be a Lawgiver; not
to obey his law is a breach made upon his ri ht of government; but
it is treason in any against the crown of God., to mint laws with a‘
stamp contrary to that of heaven, whereby they renounce their due
subjection, and vie with God for dominion, snatch the supremacy
from him, and account themselves more lords than the Sovereign
Monarch of the world. When men will not let God be the judge
of good and evil, but put in their own vote, controlling his to estab-
lish their own; such are not content to be as gods, subordinate to
the supreme God, to sit at his feet; nor co-ordinate with him, to sit
equal upon his throne ; but paramount to him, to over-top and shadow
his crown ;-a boldness that leaves the serpent, in the first temp-
tation, under the character of a more commendable modesty; who
advised our Hrst parents to attempt to ,be as gods, but not above
him, and would enervate a law of God, but not enact a contrary one
to be observed by them. Such was the us ation of Nebuchada
nezzar, to set up a golden image to be adoredufgan. iii.), as if he had
power to mint gods, as well as to conquer men; to set the stamp of
a Deity upon ahpiece of gold, as well as his own efhgies upon his
current coin. uch oft e same nature was that of Darius, by the
motion of his flatterers, to prohibit any etition to be made to God
for the space of thirty days, as though Cibd was not to have a. wor-
ship without a license from a doting (piece of cla ' (Dan. vi. 7). So
Henry the Third of France, by this e `ct, silenced masters of families
from raying with their households! And it is a farther contempt
of Goil’s authority, when good men are oppressed by the sole weight
of power, for not observing such laws, as if they had a real sover-
eignty over the consdenccs of men, more than God himself” )Vhen
the a ostles were commanded by an angel from God, to preach in
the 'liemple the doctrine of' Christ (Acts, v. 19, 20), they were fetched
from thence with a guard before the council (ver. 6). And what is
the lan e of those statesmen to them? as absolute as God him-
self coiilililzgisrak to any transgrcssors of his law. “ Did not we sizwilly
command you, that you should not teach in this name ?" (ver. 22),
It is sufficient that we gave yuo a command to be silent, and publ-
' Trap. in loc. ‘ Fauoheur, Vol. IL pp. 663, 664.

