482 crmiurocic ON THE srrnrsurns.
no more this doctrine of Jesus; it is not for you to examine our de-
crees, but rest in our order as loyal subjects, and comply with your
rulers; the migpt have added,-though it be with the damnation
of your souls. ow would those overrule the a. ostles by no other
reason but their absolute pleasure! And though God had espoused
their cause, by delivering them out of' the rison, wherein they had
locked them the day before, yet not one of all this council had the
wit or honesty to entitle it a iighlring against God, but Gamaliel (ver.
29). So foolishly fond are men to put themselves in the lace of
God, and usurp a jurisdiction over men’s conscien M: andp to pre-
sume that laws made a ainst the interest and command of God, must
be of more force than gmc laws of God's enacting.
[2.] The sovereignty of God is contemned in making additions to
the laws of God. The authority ofa sovereign Lawgiver isinvaded and
vilied when an inferior presumes to make orders equivalent to his
edicts. It is a praamunirf against heaven to set up an authority dis-
tinct from that of God, or to enjoin anything as necessary in matter
of worship for which a Divine commission cannot be shown. God
was always so tender of this part of his prerogative, that he would
not have an thine wrought in the tabernacle, not a vessel, not an
instrument, but wthat himself had prescribed. “According to all that
I show thee, after the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of
all the instruments thereof, even so shall 'e make it” (Exod. xxv. 9);
which is strictly urged again, ver. 40: “llook that thou make them
after their pattern ;’ look to it, beware of doing anything of thine
own head, and justling with my authority. It was so afterwards in
the matter of the temple, which succeeded the tabernacle; God gave
the model of it to David, and made him “understand in writing by
his hand upon him, even all the works of this pattern" (1 Clu‘on
xxviii. 19). Neither the royal authority in Moses, who was king is
Jesurun; nor in David, who was a man after God’s own heart, and
called to the crown by a special and extraordinary providence; nor
Aaron, and the hi fh priests his successors, invested in the sacerdotal
oiiice, had any auiiliority from God, to do anythin in the framing
the tabernacle or temple of their own heads. Godiarred them from
anything of that nature, by giving them an exact pattern, so dear to
him was always this flower of his crown. And afterwards, the power
of appointing oilicers and ordinances in the church was delegated tc
Christ, and was among the rest ofthose royalties given to him, which
he fully completed “ for the edifying of the body’ (Eph. iv. 11, 12);
and he hath the eulogy by the Spirit of God, to be “ faithful as
Moses was in all his house, to Him that ap ointed him” (Heb. iii. 2).
Faithfulness in a trust implies a punctual observing directions; God
was mill so tender of this, that even Christ, the Son, should no more
do anything in this concern without appointment and pattern, than
“Moses, a servant” (ver. 5, 6). It seems to be a vote of nature to
refer the original of the modes of all worship to God; and therefore
in all those varieties of ceremonies amon the heathens, there was
scarce any but were imagined by them togbe the dictates and orders
of some of their pretended deities, and not the resolves of mere hu-
man authority. What intrusion upon God’s right hath the papacy

