oN eon’s nommon. 48|
made in regard of oiiicers, cardinals, patriarchs, &e., not known in
any Divine order? In regard of ceremonies in worship, pressed as
necessary to obtain the favor of God, holy water, crucifixes, altars,
images, cringings, reviving many of the Jewish and Pagan ceremo-
nies, and adopting them into the family of Christian orrdinances; as
if God had been too absolute and arbitrary in repealing the one, and
dashing in ieees the other. When God had by his sovereign order
framed a religion for the heart, men are ready to usu an authority
to frame one for the sense, to dress the ordinances dl? God in new
and gaudy habits, to take the e e by a vain pomp; thus aifecting a
Divine royalty, and acting a sillly childishness; and after this, to im-
pose the observation of those upon the consciences of men, is a bold
ascent into the throne of God; to im ose laws upon the conscience,
which Christ hath not imposed, hatli) deservedly been thought the
ve spirit of antichrist; it ma be called also the spirit of anti-god.
G3 hath reserved to himselfy the sole sovereignty over the con-
science, and never indulged men any part of it; he hath not given
man a power over his own conscience, much less one man a power
over another’s conscience. Men have a power over outward things
to do this or that, where it is determined by the law of God, but not
the least authority to control any dictate or determination of cou-
science: the sole empire of that is appropriate to God, as one of the
great marks of his royalty. What an usurpation is it of God’s right
to make conscience at slave to man, which God hath solely, as the
Father of spirits, subjected to himself I-an usurpation which, though
the apostles, those extraordinary oiiieers, might better have claimed,
yet they utterly disowned any imperious dominion over the faith of
others (2 Cor. i. 24). Thong in this they do not seem to climb up
above God, yet they set themselves in the throne of God, envy him
an absolute monarchy, would be shareis with him in his legislative
power, and grasp one end of his sceptrc in their own hands. They
o not pretend to take the crown from God’s head, but discover a
bold ambition to shuffle their hairy scalps under it, and wear part of
it upon their own, that they may rule with him, not under him; and
would be joint lords of his manor with him, who hath, by the apos-
tle, forbidden any to be “lords of his heritage” (1 Pet. v. 3): and
therefore they cannot assume such an authority to themselves till
they can show where God hath resigned this part of his authority to
them. If their exposition of that place (Matt. xvi. 18), “Upon this
rock I will build my church,” be granted to be true, and that the
person and successors of Peter are meant by that rock, it could be no
apology for their usurpations; it is not Peter and his successors shall
build, ut “I~will builcl;” others are instruments in building, but
they are to observe the directions of the grand Architect.
[3.] The sovereignty of God is contemned when men prefer obe-
dience to men’s laws before obedience to God. As God hath an
undoubt/ed right, as the Lawgiver and Ruler of the world, to enact
laws without consulting the pleasure of men, or requiring their con-
sent to the verifying and establishing his edicts, so are men obliged,
by their allegiance as subjects, to observe the laws of their Creator,
without consulting whether they be agreeable to the laws of his re-
voL. ii.-28

