484 cmuzaoox ON rms: srramurns.
volted creatures. To consult with flesh and blood whether we should
obey, is to authorize flesh and blood above the purest and most
sovereign Spirit. When men will obey their superiors, without tak-
ing in the condition the apo tle prescribes to servants (Col. iii. 22),
“ n singleness of heart fearin God,” and postpone the fear of God
to the fear of man, it is to render God of less power with them than
the drop of a bucket, or dust of the balance. When we, out of fear
of punishment, will observe the laws of men against the laws of God,
it is like the Egyptians, to worship a ravenous crocodile instead of 8
Deity; when we submit to human laws, and stavger at Divine, it is
to set man ulpon the throne of God, and God at the footstool of man;
to set man a ove, and God beneath; to make himthe tail, and not
the head, as God speaks in another case of Israel (Deut. xxviii. 13).
When we ay an outward observation to Divine laws, because they
are backedp by the laws of man, and human authority is the motive
of our observance, we subject God’s sovereignty to man’s authority;
what he hath from us, is more owing to the peasum of men than
any value we have for the em ire of God: w en men shall commit
murders, and imbrue their hands in blood by the order of a gi-andee;
when the worst sins shall be committed by the order of papal dis!
pensations; when the use of his creatures, which God hat 1 granted
and sanctified, 'shall be abstained from for so many days in the week,
and so many weeks in` the year, because of a Roman edict, the au-
thority of man is acknowledged, not only equal, but su erior, to that
of God; the dominion of dust and clay is preferred Eefore the un-
doubted right of the Soverign of the world; the commands of God
are made less than human, and the orders of men more authoritative
than Divine, and a grand rebel’s usurpation of God’s right is coun-
tenanced. When men are more devout in observance of uncertain
traditions, or mere human inventions, than attthe hearing of the un#
questionable oracles of God; when men shall squeeze their counte-
nances into a more serious figure, and demean themselves in a more
religious glosture, at the appearance of some mock ceremony, clothed
in a Jewis or Pa an garb, which hath unhappily made a rent in the
coat of Christ, and ay a more exact reverence to that which hath no
Divine, but only a human stamp u on it, than to the clear and plain
word of God, which is perhaps neglected with sleepy nods, or which
is worse, entertained with profane scoifs;-this is to prefer the au-
thority of man employed in triiles, before the authority of the wise
Lawgiver of the world: besides, the ridiculousness of it is as great
as to adore a glow-worm, and laugh at the sun; or for a' courtier to
be more exact in his cringes and starched postures before a uppet
than before his sovereign prince. In all this we make not the will
and authority of God our rule, but the will of man; disclaim our
dependence on God, to-hang u on the uncertain breath of a creature.
In all this God is made less than man, .and man more than God;
God is deposed, and man enthroned; God made a slave, and man a
sovereign abc vc him. To this wc may refer the solemn addi'cs.ses
of some ibr the maintenance of the Protestant religion according to
law, the law of man; not so much minding the law of God, resolvin
to make the law, the church, the state, the rule of their religion, and

