ON cons nommoiv. 435
change that if the laws be changed, steering their opinions by the
compass of the magistrate's judgment and interest.
(2.) d.The dominion of God, as a Proprietor, is practically con-
temne
SL] Bylenvy. When we are not flush and gay, as well spread
an spar ing as others, this passion gnaws our souls, and we be-
come the executioncrs to rack ourselves, because God is the executor
of his own pleasure, The foundation of this passion is a quarrel
with God; to env others the enjoyment of their propriety is to envy
God his right of disposal, and, conse uently, the ropriety of his own
goods; it is a mental theft committed against God; we rob him of his
right in our will and wish; it is a robbery to make ourselves e ual
with God when it is not our due, which is implied (Phil. ii. 6), W(l1en
Christ is said “to think it no robbery to be equal with God.” We
would wrest the sceptre out of his hand, wish he were not the con-
ductor of the world, and that he would resign his sovereignty, and
the right of the distribution of his own goods, to the capricios of our
humor, and ask our leave to what subjects he should dispense his
favors. All envy is either a tacit accusation of God as an usurper,
and assuming a right to dis ose of that which doth not belong to
him, and so it is a denial of his ropriety, or else charges him with
a blind or unjust distribution, and so it is a bespatt/ering his wisdom
and righteousness. When God doth punish envy, he vindicates his
own sovereignt , as though this passion chiefly endeavored to blast
this perfection gldzek. xxv. 11, 12): “As I live, saith the Lord, I will
do according to thy anger, and according to thy envy, and thou shall
know that I am the Lord.” The sin of envy in the devils was im-
mediately against the crown of God, and so was the sin of envy in
the first man, envying God the sole prerogative in knowledge above
himself This base humor in Cain, at the preference of Abel’s sacri-
lice before his, was the cause that he deprived him of his life: deny-
ing God, first his. right of choice and what he should accept, and
then invading God’s right of' propriety, in usurping a power over
the life and being of his brother, which solely be onged to God.
[2.] The dominion of God, as a proprietor, is practically contemned
by a violent or surreptitious taking away from any what God hath
given him the possession of Since God is the Lord of all, and rnaiy
give the possession and dominion of things to whom he pleaseth, a l
theft and purloining, all cheating and cozening another of his right,
is not only a crime against the true Hossessor, epriving him of what
he is entrusted with, but against Go , as the absolute and universal
proprietor, having a right thereby to confer his own goods upon
whom he leaseth, as well as against God as a Lawgiver, forbid ing
such a violence: the snatching away what is another’s, denies man
the right of ossession, and God the right of donation: the Israelites
taking the Egyptians’ jewels had been theft had it not been by a
Divine license and order, but cannot be slandered with such a term!
after the Proprietor of the whole world had altered the title, an(
ahenated them by his positive grant from the Egyptians, to confer
them u on the Israelites.
[3.] The dominion of God, as a proprietor, is practically contemned

