436 crrannocx on 'rm-: yrrnmnrss.
by not using what God hath given us for those ends for which he
gave them to us. God asseth things over to us with a condition to
use that for his glory which he hath bestowed upon us by his boun-
ty: he is Lord of the end for which he gives, aswell as Lord of what
he gives; the donor’s right of propriety is infringed when the lands
and legacies he leaves to a particu ar use are not emlplleyed to those
ends to which he bequeathed them: the right of the o of a manor
is violated when the copyhold is not used according to the condition
of the conveyance. So it is an invasion of God’s sovereignty not to
use the creatures for those ends for which we are entrusted with
them: when we deny oiuselves a due and lawful support from them;
hence covetousness is an invasion of his right: or when we unneces-
sarily waste them; hence prodigality disowns his propriety: or when
we bestow not anything upon the relief of others; hence nncharita-
bleness comes un er the same title, appropriating that to ourselves,
as if we were the lords, when we were but the usufructuaries for our-
selves, and stewards for others; this is to be “ rich to ourselves, not
to God” (Luke xii. 21), for so are they who em loy not their wealth
for the service, and according to the intent, of Sie donor. Thus the
Israelites did not own God the true roprietor of their corn, wine,
and oil, which God had given them fgr his worshi , when the pre-
pared offerings for Baal out of his stock: i.“ For she did not hnow
that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, and multiplied her gold and
silver, which they prepared for Baal" (Hos. ii. 8); as if they had been
sole proprietors, and not factors by commission, to improve the
goods for the t.rue owner. It is the same invasion of God s right to
use the parts and gifts that God hath given us, either as fuel for our
pride, or advancing self, or a witty scofling at God and religion;
when we use not religion for the honor of our Sovereign, but a stool
to rise by, and observe his precepts outwardly, not out of regard to
his authority, but as a, stale to our interest, and furnishing self with
a little concern and trifle; when men will wrest his word for the favor
of their lusts, which God intended for the checking of them, and
make inte retations of it according to their humors, and not according
to his willliliscovered in the Scripture, this is to pervert the use of the
best goods and depositum he hath put into o\u° hands, even Divine
revelations. Thus hypocrisy makes the sovereignty of God a nullity.
(3.) The dominion of God, as a Governor, is practically con-
ternned.
[L] In idolatry. Since worship is an acknowledgment of God’s
sovereignty, to adore any creature instead of God, or to pay to any-
thing that homa e of trust and confidence which is due to God,
though it be the Irighest creature in heaven or earth, is to acknowl-
edge that sovereignty to pertain to a creature, which is challenged
by God; as to set up the greatest lord in a kingdom in the govem-
ment, instead of the lawful prince, is rebellion and usurpation;
and that woman incurs the crime of adultery, who commits it with
a person of great port and honor, as well as with one of a mean
condition. While men create anythin a god, they own themselva
supreme above the true God, yea, and above that which they ao
count a god; for, by the right of creation, they have ia superiority,

