ON GOD’S no1nNIoN. 487
as it is a deity blown up by the breath of their own imagination.
The authority; of God is in this sin acknowledged to belong to an
idol; it is ca ed loathing of God as a husband (Ezek. xvi. 45), all
the authority of God as a husband and Lord over them: so when
we make anything or any person in the world the chief object and
prop of our trust and confi ence, we act the same part. Trust in an
idol is the formal part of idolatry; “so is every one that trusts in
them” (Ps. cxv. 8), i. e. in idols: whatsoever thing we make the ob
ject of our trust, we rear as an idol. It is not unlawful to have the
image of a creature, but to bestow divine adoration upon it; it was
not unlawful for the Egyptians to possess and use oxen, but to dub
them gods to be adored, it was: it is not unlawful to have wealth
and honor, nor to have gi&s and parts, they are the presents of
God; but to love them above God, to fix our reliance upon them
more than upon God, is to rob God of his due, who, being our
Creator, ought to be our confidence. What we want we are to de-
sire of him, and expect from him. When we confide in anything
else we deny God the glory of his creation; we disown him to be
Lord of the world; imply that our welfare is in the hands of; and
depends upon, that thing wherein we confide; it is not only to
“ equal it to God" in sovereign power, which is his own phrase (Isa.
xl. 25), but to prefer it before him in a reproach of him. _ When the
hosts of heaven shall be served instead of the Lord of those hosts;
when we shall lackey after the stars, depend barely upon their in-
fluences, without looking up to the great Director of the sun, it
is to pay an adoration unto a captain in a regiment which is due to
the general. When we shall “make gold our hople, and say to the
fine old, Thou art my confidence,” it is to deny t e supremacy of
that éod that is above; as well as if we kiss our hands, in a way of
adoration, to the sun in its splendor, or “the moon walking in its
brightness,” for Job couples t em together (ch. xxxi. 25-28); it is
to prefer the authority of earth before that of heaven, and honor
clay above the Sovereign of the world: as if a soldier should con-
fide more in the rag of an ensigu, or the fragment of a drum, for his
safet , than in the orders and conduct of his general; it were as
muclias is in his power to uncommiwion him, and snatch from him
his commander’s staff When we advance the creature in our love
above God, and the altar of our soul smokes with more thoughts
and affections to a petty interest than to God, we lift up that which
was given us as a servant in the lace of the Sovereign, and bestow
that throne upon it which is to he kept undefiled for the rightful
Lord, and subject the interest of God to the demands of the crea-
t\11’8. So much respect is due to God, that none should be placed in
the throne of our affections equal with him, much less anything to
perk above him.
[2.] Impatience is a contempt of God as a governor. When we
meet with rubs in the way of an design, when our expectations are
crossed, we will break through all obstacles to accomplish our pro-
jects, whether God will or no. When we are too much dejected at
some unexpected rovidence, and murmur at the instruments of it,
as if God ivmted) himself of his prerogative of conducting human

