438 OHARNQCK CON THE A'I.'I'BIBU'I‘ES.
affairs; when a little cross blows us into a mutiny, and swells ul
into a saucinem to implead God, or make us fret against him (as the
expression is, Isa.. viii. 21), wishing himout of histhrone; no sin is
so devilish as this; there is not anystrikes more at all the attributes
of God than this, against his gp; ness, righteousness, holiness, wis-
dom., and dothas little spare ° sovereignty as any of the rest:
what can it be else, but an im ions invasion of his dominion, to
uarrel with him for what he doth, and to say, What reason hast
lliou to deal thus with me? This language is in the nature of all
impatience, whereby we question his sovereignty, and parallel our
dominion with his. When men have not that conlluence of wealth
or honor they greedily desired, they bark at God, and revile his
government: they are angry God oth not more respectfully ob-
serve them, _az though he had nothing to do in their matters, and
were wanting in that becornirig reverence which they think him bound
to pay to such great ones as' ey are; they would ave God obedient
to their minds, and act nothing but what he receives a commission
for from their wills. When we murmur, it is as if we would com-
mand his will, and wear his crown; a wresting the see tre out of his
hands to sway it ourselves; we deny him the right ol? government,
disown his power over us, and would be our- own sovereigns: you
mag' find the character of it in the language of J ehorarn (as man
un erstand i? “ Behold, this evil is o the Lord; what should 'T
wait for the ord any longer?" (2 Kings, vi. 33). This is an evil of
such a nature, that it could come from none but the hand of God;
why should I attend upon him, as my Sovereign, that deli hts to do
me so much mischief, that throws curses u n me when Ig expected
blessings? I will no more observe his diieetions, but follow my
own sentiments, and regard not his authority in the li s of his do-
ting rophet. The same you find in the Jews, when they were un-
der (gods lash; “And they said, There is no hope: but we will
Walk ahser our own devices, and we will every one do the imagina-
tion of his evil heart” (Jer. xviii. 12): we can expect no good from
him, and therefore we will be our own sovcreigns, and prefer the
authority of our own imaginations before that of his precepts. Men
would be their own carvers, and not suH`er God to use his right; as
if a stone should order the mason in what manner to hew it, and in
what artof the builditnag to place it. We are not ordinarily con-
cerned' so much at the amities of our neighbors, but swell against
heaven at a light drop upon ourselves. We are content God should
be the soverei of others, so that he will be a servant to us: let
.him deal as 53 will himself with others, so he will treat us, and
what relates to us, as we will ourselves. We would have God re-
sign his authority to our humors, and our humors should be in the
lace of a God to him, to direct him what was :lit to do in our cause.
%Vhen things go not according to our vote, our impatience is a wish
that God was eposed from his throne, that he would surrender his
sect to some that would deal more favorably, and be more punctual
observers of our directions. Let us look to ourselves in regard of
this sin, which is too common, and the root of much mischiefl This
seems to be the first bubbling of Adam’s will; he was not content

