on oon's noimnon. 439
with the condition wherein God had placed him, 'but afected an-
other, which ended in the ruin of himself] and of mankind
[3.] Limiting God in his way of working to our methods, is an-
other part of the contempt of his dominion. When we will pre-
scribe him methods of acting, that he should deliver us in this or
that way, we would not suffer him to be the Lord of his own favors,
and have the privilege to be his own director. When we will limit
him to such a time, wherein to work our deliverance, We would rob
him of the power of times and seasons, which are solely in.his
hand. We would regulate his conduct according to our imagina-
tions, and assume a power to give laws to our Sovereign. Thus the
Israelites “limited the Holy One of Israel” (Ps. lxxviii. 41): they
would control his absolute dominion, and, of a sovereign, make him
their slave. Man, that is God’s vassal, would set bounds to his
Lord, and cease to be a servant, and commence master, when he
would give, not take, directions from him. When God had given
them manna, and their fancies were weary of that delicious food,
they would rescribe heaven to rain down some other sort of food
for them. When the wanted no sutiicient provision in the wild-
erness, they quarrellefl' with God for bringing them out of Egyp3
and not presently giving them a place of seed, of tigs, vines, an
pzmegranates (Numb. xx. 5), which is called a “striving with the
rd” Ser. 13), a contending with him for his Lordship. When we
tempt od, and require a sign of him as a mark of is favor, we
circumscribe his dominion; when we will not use the means he hath
pfppointed, but father our laziness upon a trust in his providence, as
` we expected he should work a miracle for our re 'ef; when we
censure im for what he hath done in the course of his providence;
when we capitulate with him, and promise such a service, if he will
do us such a goodturn according to our platform, we would brin
down his sovereign pleasure to our will, we invade his throne, and
expect a submissive obedience from him. Man that hath not wit
enough to glovern himself, would be governing God, and those that
cannot be t eir own sovereigns, affect a sovereignty over heaven.
YL] Pride and presumption is another invasion of his dominion.
W len men will resolve to go to-morrow to such a city, to such a
fair and market, to traiiic, and get gain, without thinking of the ne-
cessity of a Divine license, as if ourselves were the lords of our time
and of our lives, and God were to lackey after us (James-iv. 13, 15):
“Ye that say, To-day we will go into such a city, and buy and sell,
whereas ye ou ht to say, If the Lord will, we shall live ;” as if they
had a freeholfi and were not tenants at will to the Lord of the
manor. When we presume upon oiu° own strength or wit to get the
better of our adversaries; as t e Germans (as Tacitus relates) assured
themselves, by the numerousness of their army, of a victory against
the Romans, and prepared chains to fetter the captives before the
conquest, which were found in their camp after their defeat ;-when
we are perem tory in expectations of success according to our will ;
as Pharaoh dlilxod. xv. 9), “I will pursue, I will overtake, I will
divide the spoil, my lust shall be satisfied upon them, I will draw
my sword, my hand shall destroy them z” he speaks more like a

