440 cnumocx ON 'rss Arrmsurns.
od than a man, as 'if he were the sovereigln power, and God only
his vicar and lieutenant; how he struts, wit out thinking of a supe-
rior power to curb him I-when men ascribe to themselves what is
the sole fruit of God’s sovereign pleasure; as the king of Assvria
speaks a language fit only to be spoken by God (Isa. x. 13, 14, &c.),
“I have removed the bounds of the people; my hand hath found
as a nest the riches of the people; I have gathered all the earth ;"
which God declares to be a wrong to his sovereignty b the title
wherewith he prefaceth his threatening against him River. 16):
“Therefore shal the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his tat
ones leanness," &c. It is indeed a riding, if not of his crown, yet
of the most glittering jewel of it, his glory. “He that mocks the
r reproac ieth his Maker” (Prov. xvii. 5). He never thinks that
idiffi made them poor, and himself rich ; he owns not his richesto be
dropped upon him bi the Divine hand. Self is the great invader of
Go 's sovereignty; oth not only sp\u'n at it, but usurp it, and as~
sume divine honors, payable only to the universal Sovereign. The
Assyrian was not so modest as t e Chaldean, who would impute his
gower and victories to his idol (Hab. i. 11), whom he thought to be
od, though yet robbing the true God of his authorit ; and so
much was signiiied by their names, Nebuchadnezzar, Evil-hlerodach,
Belshazzar, Nebq, Mcrodach, Bel, being the Chaldean idols, and the
names signifying, Lord of wealth, Giver of riches, and the like.-
When we behave ourselves proudly towards others, and imagine
ourselves greater than our Maker ever meant us ;-when we would
give laws to others, and expect the most submissive observances
rom them, as if God had resigned his authority to us, and made us,
in his stead, the rightful monarchs of the world. To disdain that
any creature shoul be above us, is to disdain God's sovereign dis-
position of men, and conseqiuently, his own superiority over us. A
proud man would govern al ,and would not have God his Sovereign,
ut his subiect; to overvalue ourselves, is to undervalue God.
[5.] Slight and careless worship of God is another contempt of
his sovereignty. A prince is contemned, not only by a neglect of
those reverential postures which are due to him, but in a reproach-
ful and scornful way of aying them. To behave ourselves un-
comely or immodestly beiiire a prince, is a disesteem of majesty.
Sovereignty requires awe in every address, where this is wanting
there is a disrepect of authority. We contemn God’s dominion.
when we give him the service of the lip, the hand, the knee, and
deny him that of the heart; as they in Ezekiel, xxxiii. 31, as thou h
he were the Sovereign only of the body, and not of the souL To
have devout Hgures of the face, and uncomely postures of the soul,
is to exclude his dominion from our spirits, while we own it only
over our outward man; we render him an insignificant Lord, not
worthy of any higher adorations from us than a senseless statue; we
dernean not ourse ves according to his majestical authority over us,
when we resent him not with the cream and quintessence of our
souls. The greatness of God required a great house, and a costly
alace (1 Chron. xxix. 11, 16); David speaks it in order to the
Building God a house and a temple; God being a great King ex-

