‘ ON eoirs noimrion. ' 441
pects a male, the best of our Bock (Mal. i. 14), a masculine and vig-
orous service. When we present him with a sleepy, sickly rheu-
matic service, we betray our conceptions of him to be as mean as if
he were some petty lord, whose dominion were of no larger extent
than a mole-hi 1, or some inconsiderable village.
gil] Omission of the service he hath appointed is another contempt
of is sovereignty. This is a contempt of his dominion, whereby
he hath a right to appoint what means and conditions he pleaseth,
for the enjoyment of his proffered and promised benefits. It is an
enmity to his sceptre not to accept of his terms after a long series of
precepts and invitations made for the restoring us to that happiness
we had lost, and providing all means necessary thereunto, nothin
being wanting but our own concurrence with it, and acceptance 0?
it, by rendering that easy homage he requires. By withholdin
from him the service he en`oins, we deny that we hold anything o?
him ; as he that pays not tlie quit rent, though it be never so small,
disowns the sovereignty of the lord of the manor; it implies, that
he is a miserable poor lord, having no right, or destitute of any
power, to dis >ose of anything in the world to our advantage (J ob,
xxii. 17): “ 'l`hey say unto God, Depart from us, what can the Al-
mighty do for them ?” They will have no commerce with him in a
way of duty, because they imagine him to have no sovereign power
to do anything for them in way of benefit, as if his dominion were
an empty title, and as much destitute of any authority to com-
mand a favor for them as any idol. The think themselves to have
as absolute a disposal of things, as God livimsclfl What can he do
for us? what can he confer upon us, that we cannot invest ourselves
in? as though they were sovereigns in an equality with God. Thus
men live “ without God in the world” (Eph. ii. 12), as if there were
no Supreme Being to pay a respect to, or none tit to receive any
homage at their hanc s; witliholdin from God the right of his
time and the right of his service, waich is the just claim of his
sovereignty.
[7.] Censuring others is a contempt of his sovereignty. When
we censure men’s rsons or actions by a rash judgment; when we
will be judges of 5; good and evil of men’s actions, where the law
of God is utterly silent, we usuiip God’s place, and invade his right;
we claim a superiority over the aw, and judge God defective, as the
Rector of the world, in his prescriptions of good and evil. (James,
iv. 11, 12), “He that spleaks evil of his .brother, and judgeth his
brother, speaks evil of t e law, and judgeth the law; there is one
Lawgiver who is able to save, and to destroy: who art thou that
°udgest another? Do you know what you do in judging another?
lfou take upon you the garb of a sovereign, as if he were more your
servant than God’s, and more under your authority than the authori-
ty of God; it is a setting thyself in God's tribunal, and assuming
his rightful power of judging; thy brother is not to be governed by
thy fancy, but by God’s law, and his own conscience.
2. Informatzkm. Hence it follows, that God doth actually govern
the world. He hath not only a right to rule, but “ he rules over
all," so saith the text. He is “King of kings, and Lord of lords,”-§

