442 CHARNOCK ON THE A'I'I‘R1IBU'I'ES.
what, to let them do what the please, and all that their lusts prompt
them to? hath God an absolute dominion? Is it good, and is it
wise? Is it then a useless prerogative of' the Divine nature? Shall
so excellent a wer lie idle, as if God were a lifeless image?
Shall we fancy ggd lik some lazy monarch, that solaceth himselfin
the gardens of his pala;, or steeps himself in some charming pleas-
ures, and leaves his lieutenants to govern the several provm
which are all members of his empire, according to their own humiis?
Not to exercise this dominion is all one as not to have it; to what
purpose is he invested with this sovereigrgy, if he were careless of
what were done in the world, and regard not the- oppressions of
men? God keeps no useless excellenci by him; he actually reigns
over the heathen (Ps. xlvii. 8), and t ose as bad, or worse than
heathens. It had been a vanity in David to call upon the heavens
to be glad, and the earth to rejoice, under the rule of a. “sleepy
Deity’ (1 Chron. xvi. 31). No; his sceptre is full of eyes, as it was
painted by the Egyptians; he is always waking, and always more
than Ahasuerus, reading over the records of human actions. Not to
exercise his authorit , is all one as~ not to regard whether he keep
the crown upon his lliead, or continue the sceptre in his hand.   his
sovereignty were exempt from care, it would be destitute of justice;
God is more righteous than to resi n the ensigns of his authorit to
blind and oppressive man; to thing that God hath a power, and dloth
not use it or just and ri hteous ends, is to imagine him an un
righteous as well as a careless Sovereign; such a thing in a man
renders him a base man, and a worse governor; it is a vice that dis
turbs the world, and overthrows the ends of authority, as to have a
ower, and use it well, is the greatest virtue of an earthly sovereign.
Mat an unworthy conception is it of God, to acknowledge him to
be possessed of' a greater authority than the greatest monarch, and
yet to think that he useth it less than a petty lord; that 'his crown
rs of no more value with him than a feat er This represents God
impotent, that he cannot, or unrighteous and base, that he will not
administer the authority he hath for the noblest and justest end.
But can we say, that he neglects the government of the world? How
come things then to remain in their due order? How comes the law
of nature yet to be reserved in every man’s soul? Howcomes con-
science to check, and) cite, and judge If God did not exercise his
authorit , what authority could conscience have to disturb man in
unlawful’ practices, and to make his sports and sweetness so un leas-
ant and som' to him? Hath he not given fre uent notices and) me
morials, that he holds a curb over corrupt indlinations, puts rubs in
the way of malicious attempters, and often oversets the disturbers
of the peace of the world?
3. Infbrmation. God can do no wrong, since he is absolute Sov
ereign. Man may do wrong, princes may oppress and riiie, but
itis a crime in them so to do: because their power is a power oi
government, and not of propriety, in the goods or lives of their
subjects; but God cannot o any wrong, whatsoever the clamors of
creatures are, because he can do nothing but what he hath a sov-
ereign right to do. If he takes away your goods, he takes not

