ON GOD'S DOHINION. 443
away andything that is yours more than his own, since though he
entruste you with them, he divested not himself of the propriety.
When he takes away our lives, he takes what he gave us by a
temporary donation, to be surrendered at his call: we can claim no
right in anything but by his will. He is no debtor to us: and
since he owes us nothing, he can wrong us in nothing that he takes
away. His own sovereignty excuseth him in all those acts which
are most distasteiiil to the creature. If we crop a medicinal plant
for our use, or a flower for our pleasure, or kill a lamb for our
food, we do neither of them any wrong: because the original of
them was for our use, and they had their life, and nourishment, and
pleasing qualities for our delight and support. And are not we
much more made for the leasure and use of God, than any oi
those can be for us? “Of him and to him are all things” (Rom.
xi. 36): hath not God as much right over any one of us, as over
the meanest worm? Though there be a vast difference in nature
between the angels in heaven and the worms on earth, yet they are
all one in regard of subjection to God; he is as much the Lord oi
the one as the other; as much the Proprietor of the one as the
other; as much the Governor of one as the other ;--not a cranny
in the world is exempt from his jurisdiction ;-not a mite or in
of a creature exem t' from his propriety. He is not our Lordnliy
election; he was a Eord before we were in being; he had no terms
ut upon him who capitulated with him, and set him in his throne
by covenant. What oath did he take to any subject at his Hrst in-
vestiture in his authority? His right is as natural, as eternal as
himself: as natural as his existence, and as necessary as his Deity.
Hath he any law but his own will? What wrong can he do that
breaks no law, that fulfils his law in everything he doth, by fill-
iilling his own will, which as it is absolute y sovereign, so it is in-
initely righteous? In whatsoever he takes from us, then, he can-
not injure us; it is no crime in any man to seize upon his own
goods to vindicate his own honor; and shall it be thought a wrong
in God to do such things, besides the occasion he hath from every
man, and that every) day rovoking him to do it? He seems rather
to wrong himself y forhearing such a seizure, than wrong. us by
executing it.
4. Information. If God have a sovereignty over the whole world,
then merit is totally excluded. His right is so absolute over all
creatures, that he neither is, nor can be, a debtor to any; not to
the uudefiled holiness of the blessed angels, much less to poor earthly
worms; those blewed spirits enjoy their glory by the title of his
sovereign pleasure, not y virtue of any obligation devolving from
them upon God. Are not the faculties, whereby they and we per-
form any act of obedience, his nt to us? Is not the strength,
whereby they and we are enabled-[Za do anything pleasing to him,
a gift from him? Can a. vassal merit of his lord, or a slave of his
master, by using his tools, and employing his strength in his ser-
vice, though it was astrength he had naturally, not b donation
from the man in whose service it is emplo ed? God is lilord of' all
--all is due tohim; how can we oblige liim bv giving him what

