444 cnunsooz ON 'rms arrnmurms.
is his own, more his to whom it is resented, than cms by whom it
is ofgeieg? He becomes npr a ddbtor by receiving anything from
us, ut romisin somet 'n to us!
5. Info?-vgahbn. I.§God hathi sovereign dominion over the whole
world, then hence it follows, that all magistrates are but sovereigns
under God. He is King of kings, and Lord of lords; all the poten-
tates of the world are no other than his lieutenants, movable at his
pleasure, and more at his disposal than their subjects are at theirs.
hough theg' are dignified with the title of “ gods,” et still they
are at an in nite distance from the supreme Lord; gods under Go ,
not to be above him, not to be inst him. The want of the due
sense of their subordination to Edd hath made many in the world
act as sovereigns above him more than sovereiins under him.
Had they all bore a deep conviction of this u on t eir spirits, such
audacious lan uage had never drop ed from the mouth of Pharaoh:
“Who is the iord, that I should orbey his voice, to let Israel gp ?"
(Exod. v. 22; presuming that there was no superior to control im,
nor any in eaven able to be a match for him; Darius had never.
prublished such a doting edict, as to prohibit any petition to God;
ero had never 'fired Rome, and sung at the sight of the devouring
iiames; nor ever had he ri ped up his mother's belly, to see the
womb where he first lodged: and received a life so hateful to his
country. Nor would Abner and J oab, the two generals, have ac-
counted the death of men but a sport and interlude. “Let the
young men arise and play before us” (2 Sam. ii. 14); what play it
was, the next verse acquaints you with; thrusting their swords
into one another’s sides. They were no more troubled at the death
of thousands, than a man is to kill a fly, or a flea. Had a sense of
this but hovered over their souls, people in many countries had not
been made their foot-balls, and used worse than their dogs! Nor
had the lives of millions, worth more than a world, been exposed to
iire and sword, to sup ort some sordid lust, or breach of faith upon
an idle quarrel, and fgr the depredation of their neighbors’ estates;
the fiames of cities had not been so bright, nor the streams of blood
so deep, nor the cries of innocents so loud. In particular,
(1). If God be Sovereign, all under-sovereigns are not to rule
against him, but to be obedient to his orders. If they “rule by
his authority” (Prov. viii. 15), the are not to rule against his in-
terest; the are not to imagine themselves as absolute as God, and
that their laws must be of as sovereign authority against his honor,
as the Divine are for it. If they are his lieutenants on earth, they
ought to act according to his orders. No man but will account a
governor of a province a rebel, if he disobeys the orders sent to
im by the sovereign rince that commissioned him. Rebellion
against God is a crime oi)princes, as well as rebellion against princes
s crime of subjects. Sau i  charged with it by Samuel in a hi h
manner for an act of simple disobedience, though intended for the
service trf God, and the enriching his country with the spoils of the
Amalekites. “ Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft” (1 Sam. xv. 23)~
like witchcraft or covcnanting with the devil, acting as if he hzvi
._ ¢ Austin. -

