ON eon‘s nommou. 445
receivel his commission not from God, but from Satan. Magis-
trates, as commissioned by God, ought to act for him. Doth human
authority ever give a commission to any to rebel against itself? did
God ever depute an earthly sovereignty against his glory, and 've
them leave to outlaw his laws, to introduce their own? Tic;
when he gave the vicarious dominion to Christ, he calls u n the
kings of the earth to be instructed, and be wise, and “kiss tiki; Son”
(Ps. ii. 10, 12), i. e. to observe his orders, and pay him homage as
their Governor. What a silly doltish thing is it te resist that Su-
preme Authority, to which the archangels submit themselves, and
regulate their exnployments punctually by their instructions! '1‘hose
excellent creatures exactly obe him in all the acts of their subor-
dinate government in the worldy; those in whose hand the greatest
monarch is no more than a`silly fly between the fingers of a giant.
A contradiction to the interest of God hath been fatal to kings.
The four monarchies have had their wings clipped, and most of
them have been buried in their own ashes; they ave all, like the
imitators of Lucifer’s pride, fallen from the heaven of their glory to
the depth of their shame and misery. All governors are bound to
be as much obedient to God, as their subjects are bound to be sub-
missive to them. Their authority over men is limited; God's au-
thority over them is absolute and unbounded. Though ever soul
ought to be subject to the higher powers, yet there is a liiigher
Power of all, to which those higher powers are to subject them-
selves; they are to be keepers ot' both the tables of the law of God,
and are then most sovcreigus when they set in their own practice
an example of obedience to God, for their subjects to write after.
(2.) They ought to imitate God in the exercise of their sovereignty
in ways of justice and righteousness. Though God be an absolute
sovereign, yet his government is not tyrannical, but managed accord
ing to the rules of righteousness, wisdom, and goodness. If God,
that created them as well as their subjects, doth so exercise his gov-
ernment, it is a duty incumbent upon them to do the same; since
they are not the creators of theigpeo le, but the conductors. As
God’s government tends to the go eip the world, so ought theirs to
the good of their countries. God committed not the government of
the world to the Mediator in an unlimited way, but for the ood of
the church, in order to the eternal salvation of his people. “ §e gave
him to be head over all things to the church” (Eph. i. 22). He had
power over the devils to restrain them in their temptation and malice;
power over the angels to order their ministry for the heirs of salva-
tion. So power is given to magistrates for the civil preservation of
the world and of human societ ; they ought theretbre to consider
for what ends they were placed' over the rest of mankind, and not
exercise their authority in a licentious waly, but conformable to that
justice and righteousness wherein God oth administer his govern-
ment, and for the preservation of those who are committed to them.
(3.) Magistrates must then be obeyed when they act according to
God’s order, and within the bounds of the Divine commission. T iey
are no friends to the sovereignty of God, that are enemies to magis-
traey, his ordinance. Saul was a good governor, though none of the

