446 cmumocx on 'rua urrnraurss.
best men,land the despisers of his government after God’s choioq
were the sons of Belia (1 Sam. x. 27). Christ was no enemy te
Caesar. To pull down a faithful magistrate, such an one as Zerub-
babel, is to pluck a signet from the hand of God; for in that capacity
he accounts him (Hag. ii. 23). God’s servants stand or fall to their
own Master; how doth he check Aaron and Miriam for speaking
against Moses, his servant? “ Were you not afraid to speak against
my servant Moses?" (Numbfxii. 8); agginst Moses as related to you
in the capacity of -a governor; against oses as related to you in the
capacity of my servant? To speak anything against them, as they
act by God’s order, is an invasion of God’s sovereign right, who gave
them their commission. To act against  power, or the justice of
an earth] power, is to act against Go ’s ordinance, who ordained
them in the world, but not any abuse, or ill use of their power.
Use II. How dreadful is the consideration of this doctrine to all
rebels against God! Can any man that hath brains in his head, im-
agine it an inconsiderable thing to despise the Sovereign of the world?
It was the sole crime of disobedience to that positive law, whereby
God would have a visible memorial of his sovereignty preserved in
the e e of man that showered down that deluge of misery, under
whicli the world groans to this day. God had given Adam a soul,
whereby he might live as a rationa creature; and then gives him a
law, whereby he might live as a dutiful subject: for God forbiddin
him to eat of the fruit of the tree of knowled of good and evif
declared his own supremacy over Adam, and ieis propriety in the
leasant world he had given him by his bounty; he let him know
hereby, that man was not his own lord, nor was to live after his own
sentiments, but the directions of a superior. As when a great lord
builds a magnificent palace, and brings in another to inhabit it, he
reserves a small duty to himself; not of an equal value with the
house, but for an acknowledgment of his own right, that the tenant
may know he is not the lord of it, but hath this grant by the liber-
ality of another." God hereby gave Adam matter for a pure obedi-
ence, that had no foundation in his own nature by any implanted
law; he was only-in it to respect the will of his Sovereign, and to
understand that he was to live under the power of a higher than him~
selfl There was no more moral evil in the eating of this fruit, as
considered distinct from the command, than in eating of any other
fruit in the garden: had there been no prohibition, he might with as
much safety have fed upon it as upon any other. No law of nature
was transgressed in the act of eating of it, but the sovereignty of God
over him was denied by him; and for this the death threatened was
inflicted on his ostenty: for though divines take notice of other
sins in the fall ol? Adam, yet God, in his trial, chargeth him with
none but this, and doth put upon his question an emphasis of his
own authority: “ Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded
ye that thou shouldst not eat?" (Gen. iii. 11). This I am pleased
with, that thou shouldest disown my dominion over thyself; and this
garden. This was the inlet to all the other sins: as the aoknowledg
ment of God’s sovereignty is the Hrst step to the practice of all the
' Chrysont. in Gen. Hom. 16. . .

