ON eorvs nommoiv. 447
duties of a creature, so the disowning his sovereignty is the Erst
spring of all the extravagances of a creature. Every sin against the
sovereign Lawgiver is worthy of death: the transgression of this
command deserved death, an procured it to spread itself over the
face of the world. God’s domimon cannot be despised without merit-
in the atest unishment.
§. Pughrnenl) necessaril follows upon the doctrine of sovereign-
ty. It is a faint and a feebll; sovereignty that cannot preserveitselll
and vindicate its own wrongs against rebellious subjects; the height
of God’s dominion infers a vengeance on the contemners of it: if
Grodbe an eternal King, he is an eternal Judge. Since sin ~unlinks
the dependence between God the Sovereign, and man the subject, if
God did not vindicate the rights of his sovereignty, and the authority
of his law, he would seem to despise his own ominion, be weary of
it, and not act the art of a goo governor. But God is tender of
his prerogative, and doth most bestir himself when men exalt them-
selves proudly against him: “In the thing wherein they dealt
proudly, he will be above them” (Exod. xviii. 11). When Pharaoh
thought himself a mate for God, and fproudly rejected his commands,
as if they had been the messages o some petty Arabian lord, God
rights his own authority upon t e life of his enemy by the ministry
of the Red Sea. He turned a great king into a beast, to make him
know that the Most High ruled in the kingdoms of men: “ The
demand is by the word of the holy ones, to the intent that the living
may know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdoms of nien
(Dan. iv, 16, 17); and that by the petitions of the angels, who can-
not endiu°e that the empire o God should be obscured and diminisha
ed by the pride of man. Besides the tender respect he hath 'to hil
own glory, he is constantly presented with the solicitations of the
angels to punish the proud ones of the earth, that darken the glory
of his majesty : it is necessary for the rescue of his honor, and neces-
sary for the satisfaction bf his illustrious attendants, who would think
it a shame to them to serve a Lord that were always unconcerned in
the rebellions of his creatures, and tamely suifer their spurns at his
throne; and therefore there is a day wherein the haughtmess of man
shall be bowed down, the cedars of Lebanon overthrown, and high
mountains levelled, that “ God may be exalted in that day” (Isa. ii.
11, 12), &c. Pride is a sin that immediately swells against God’s
authority; this shall be brought down that God may be exalted;
not that he should have a real exaltation, as if he were actually de-
sed from. his government, but that he shall be manifested to be the
gszvereign of the whole world. It is necessary there should be a day
to chase away those clouds that are upon his throne, that the lustre
gf his majesty may break forth to the confusion of all the children
of pride that vaunt against him. God hath a dominion over us as a
Lawgiver, as we are his creatures; and a dominion over us in a way
of justipne; as we are his criminalg. b -
2. T " unishment is unavoi a le.
S13 Noriie can escape him. He hath the sole authority over hell
an eath, the keys of both are in his hand: the eatest Cmsar can
no more escape him than the meanest peasant: “gl-Vho art thou, O

