148 CHABNOOK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
great mountain, before Zerubbabe1?” (Zech. iv.   The hei ht of
angels is no match for him, much less that of the mortal grangees of
the world; they can no more resist him than the meanest person;
but are rather, as the highest steeples, the fittest marks for his crush-
ing thunder. If he speaks the word, the principalities of men come
down, and “ the crown of their glory” (Jer. xiii. 18). He can “take
the mighty away in a moment,” and that “without hands,” i. e.
without instruments (Job, xxxiv 20). The strongest are like the
feet of N ebuchadnezzar‘s image, iron and clay; iron to man, but clay
to God, to be crumbled to nothing.
(2.) What comfort can be reaped from a creature, when the Sover-
eig; of the world arms himself with terrors, and be ` s his visitation?
“ hat will ou do in the day of visitation, to wgdnrn will you flea
for help, andywhere will you leave your lo Y” (Isa. x. 3). The
torments from a subject may be relieved S the prince, but where
can there be an alppeal from the Sovereign oiy the world? Where is
there any above im to control him, if he will overthrow us? Who
is there to call him to account, and say to him, What dost thou?
He works by an uncontrollable authority; he needs not ask leave
of any; “ he works, and none can let it” (Isa. xliii. li): as when he
will relieve, none can aiilict ; so when he will woun , none can re-
lieve. If a king appoint the punishment of a rebel, the greatest
favorite in the co1u°t cannot speak a comfortable word to him : the
most beloved angel in heaven cannot sweeten and ease the s irit of
a man that the Sovereign Power is set against to make the Hutt of
his wrath. The devils lie under his sentence, and wear their chains
as marks of their condemnation, without hope of ever having them
filed oiélsigge they are laid upon them by the authority of an unac-
counta e vereign.
(3.) By his sovereign authorgy God can make any creature the
instrument of his vengeance. e hath all the creatures at his beck,
and can commission any of them to be a. dreadful scourge. Strong
winds and tempests fulfil his word (Ps. cxlviii. 8); the lightnings
answer him at his call, and cry aloud, “Here are we” (Job, xxxviii.
85). By his sovereign authority he can render locusts as mischievous
as lions, forge the meanest creatures into swords and arrows, and
commission the most despicable to be his executioners. He can cut
off joy from our spirits, and make our own hearts be our tormentors,
our most confident friends om' persecutors, our nearest relations to
be his avengers; they are more his, who is their Soverei , than
ours, who place a vain confidence in them. Rather than gllraham
shall want children, he can raise up stones, and ado t them into his
family ; and rather than not execute his vengeance, he can array the
stones in the streets, and make them his armed subjects against us.
If he speak the word, a hair shall drop from our heads to choke us,
or a vapor, con ealed into rheum in our heads, shall drop down and
putref our vitis. He can never want Wea ons, who IS Sovereign
over the thunders of heaven and stones ofp the earth, over every
creature; and can, by a sovereign word, turn our greatest comforts
1nto curses.
3. This punishment must be terrible. How doth David., a great

