\
ON sonis nommos. 448
king, sound in his body, rosperous in his crown, and succewful in
his con nests, settled in all his royal conveniences, groan under the
wrathfui touch of a greater King than himself (Ps. vi. xxxviii., and
his other penitential Psalmszg not being able to give himself a writ
of ease by all the delights of is palace and kingdom! “ If the wrath
of a king be as the roaring of a lion” (Prov. xix. 10) to a poor sub-
'ect, how great is the wrath of the King of kings, that cannot be set
liorth by the terror of all the amazing volleys of thunder that have
been since the creation, if the noise of all were gathered into one
single crack! As there is an inconceivable ground of joy in the
Sbecial favor of so mighty a King, so is there of terror in his severe
displeasure: he is “terrible to the kings of the earth; with God is
terrible majesty” (Ps. lxxvi. 12). What a folly is it, then, to rebel
against so mighty a Sovereign I
Use III. O comfort. The throne of God drops honey and sweet-
ness, as well as dread and terror; all his other attributes afford little
relief without this of his dominion and universal command. When,
therefore, he speaks of his being the God of his people, he doth often
preface it with “the Lord thy God ;” his sovereignty, as a Lord, be-
mg the ground of all the comfort we can take in his federal relation
-as our God; thy God, but superior to thee; thy God, not as th cat-
tle and goods are thine, in a wav of sole propriety, but a Lordy too,
in a way of sovereignty, not oiily over thee, but over all things else
for thee. As the end of God’s settling earthly governments was for
the good of the communities over which the governors preside, so
God exerciseth his government for the good of the world, and more
}éarticularly for the good of the church, over which he is a peculiar
ovemor.
1. His love to his Eco le is as great as his sovereignty over them.
He stands not u n is dominion with his people so much as upon
his affection to them; he would not be called “ Baali, my Lord,” i. e.
he would not be known only by the name of sovereignty, but “ Ishi,
my husband,” a name of authority and sweetness todgether (Hos. ii.
16, 19, &c.): he signifies that he is not only the Lor of our spirits
and bodies, but a husband by a marriage knot, admitting us to a
nearncss to him, and communion of goods with him. Though he
majestically sits u on a high throne, yet it is a throne “encircled
with a rainbow” &Izek. i. Zi), to show that his government of his
people is not only in a. way o absolute dominion, but also in a way
of federal relation; he seems to own himself their subject rather than
their Sovereign, when he `ves them a charter to command him in
the affairs of his church   xlv. llg; “Ask of me things to come
concerning my sons, and concerning t e work of my hands command
you me.” Some read it by way of question, as a corrective of a
sauciness: Do you ask me of things to come, and seem to command
me concerning the works of my hands, as if you were more careful
of my interest among my people than I am, who have formed them?
But if this were the sense, it would seem to discourage an importu-
nity of prayer for public deliverance; and therefore, to take it acf
eording to our translation, it is an exhortation to prayer, and a
mighty encouragement in the management and exercise of it. Urge
vor. 11.-29

