/r
/
` CHLRNOUK UN THE ATTRIBUTES.
' 111%-§TOU1iB8, in a. way of humble imtportunity, and dyou shall
as ling to perform my word, an gratigy your esires, as
A rather under your authority, than you un er mine: as much
_ y, If I be not as good as my word, to satisfy those desires
that are according to mly promise, implead me at my own throne,
and, if I be failing in it, will give judguient inst myself: almost
like princes' charters, and gracious grants, “vlééa grant such a thing
afgainst us and our heirs,” giving the subject power to implead them
i they be not punctually observed by them. How is t e love off
God seen in his condescension below the majesty of earthy governors l
He that might command, by the absoluteness of his authorit , doth
not only do that, but entreats, in the ciluality of a subject, as ifyhe had
not a ulness to su ply us, but' neede somethin from us for a sup-
ply of himself (2 Ciir. v. 20): “ As though God iid beseech ou by
us.” And when he may challenge, as a due by the right of his pro-
priety, what we bestow upon his poor, which are his subjects as well
as ours, he reckons it as a loan to ` as if what we ha were more.
our own than his (Prov. xix. 17). He stand  not upon his dominion
so much with us, when he finds us conscientious in pa 'ng the duty
we owe to him ; he rules as a Father, by love as well asiiy authority;
he enters into a peculiar communion with poor earthly worms, plants
his gracious tabernacle among the troops of sinners, instructs us by
his word, invites us by his benefits, admits us into his presence, is
more desirous to bestow his smiles than we to receive them, and acts
in such a manner as if he were willing to resign his sceptre into the
hands of any that were possessed with more love and kindness to us
than himself: this is the comfort of believers.
2. In his being Sovereign, his lpardons ca y in them a full secu-
rity. He that hath the keys of ell and death, pardons the crime,
and wipes off the guilt. Who can repeal the act of the chief Gover-
nor? what tribunal can null the decrees of an absolute throne? (Isa.
xliii. 25), “ I, even I, am he that blots out thy transgressions, for my
name’s sake.” His soverei -dominion renders his mercy comforta-
ble. The clemency of a sugject, though never so great, cannot ar-
don; people may my a criminal, while the executioner tortures liim,
and strips him of ' life; but the clemency of the Supreme Prince
establisheth a ardon. Since we are under the dominion of God, if
he pardons, who can reverse it? if he doth not, what will the par-
dons of men profit us in regard of an eternal state? If God be a
Kin forever, then he whom God forgives, he in whom God reigns,
shed? live forever; else he would want subjects on earth, and have
none of his lower creatures, which he formed upon the earth, to
reign over after the dissolution of the world; i if his pardons did not
stand secure, he would, a&er this life, have no vo untar subjects
that had garmegy a being upon the earth; he would be a éing only
over t e mn creatures.
8. Corruptions will certainly be subdued in his voluntary subjects.
The covenant, “ I will be your God,” implies protection, govern-
ment, and relief, which are all grounded u on soverei ty; that,
therefore, which is our greatest burden, will §e removedily his suv'-
ereign power (Mic.   19) : “ He will subdue our iniquiies." Ifthe

