GN Gorrs DomN1oN. 451
outward enemies of the church shall not bear u against his domin-
ion, and perpetuate their rebellions unpunisheld, t ose within, his
people, shall as little bear up against his throne, without being de-
stroyed by him; the billows of our own hearts, and the ragin waves
within us, are as much at his beck as those without us; and his sov-
ereignty is more eminent in quelling the corruptions of the heart,
than the commotions of the world in reigning over men’s spirit=, by
changing them, or curbing them, more than over men’s bodies, by
pinching and punishing them. The remainders of Satan’s empire
will moulder awa before him, since He that is in us is a greater
Sovereign “than lie that is in the world" (1 John, iv. 4). His ene-
mies will be laid at his feet, and so never shall prevail against him,
when his kingdom shall come. He could not be Lord of any man,
as a happy creature, if he did not. by his power, make them appy;
and he could not make them happy, unless, b his grace, he made
them holy: he could not be praise , as a Lord' of glory, if he did
not make some creatures glorious to praise him; and an earthly
creature could not praise him perfectly, unless he had every grain
of enmity to his glory taken out of his eart. Since God is the only
Soverei n, he on y can still the commotions in our spirits, and pu 1
down ad the ensigns of the devil’s royalty; he can waste him by the
powerful word of his lips.
4. Hence is a strong encouragement for prayer. “My King,” was
the strong compellation David used in prayer, as an argument of
comfort and confidence, as well as that of “my God" §Ps. v. 22);
“ Hearken to the voice of m cry, my King and my Go .” To
a king is to have an otiice ofy government and protection : he gives
us liberty to approach to him as the “Judge of all” (Heb. xii. 233,
i. e. ,as the Governor of the world ; we pray to one that hath the who e
globe of heaven and earth in his hand, and can do whatsoever he
will: though he be higher than the cherubims, and. transcendently
above all in majesty, yet we may soar up to him with the wings of
our soul, .faith and love, and lay open our cause, and find him as
gracious as if he were the meanest subject on earth, rather than the
most sovereign God in heaven. He hath as much of tenderness as
he hath of authority, and is pleased with prayer, which is an ac-
knowlediment of his dominion, an honoring of that which he de-
lights to onor; for prayer, in thc notion of it, imports thus much-
that God is the Rector of the world, that he takes notice of human
affairs, that he is a careful, just, wise Governor, a storehouse of bless-
ing, a fountain of goodness to the indigent, and a relief to the op-
pressed. What have we reason to fear when the Sovereign of the
world gives us liberty to approach to him and lay open our case?
that God, who is Kin of the whole earth, not only of a few villages
or cities in the earth, but the whole earth; and not only King of this
dreg place of our dross, but of heaven, havin prepared, or estab-
lisheld? his throne in the most glorious place of gie creation.
5. Tir-re is comfort in afilietion. -As a sovereign, he is the author
of afllictious; as a sovereign, he can be the remover \of them; he
can command the waters of afiliction to go so far and no farther. If
he speaks the word, a disease shall depart as soon as a servant shall

