452 crumvocx ON ras Armmurms.
from your presence with a nod; if we are banished from one place,
he can command a shelter for us in another; if he orders Moab, a
nation that had no great kindness for his people, to let “ his outcasts
dwell with them,” they shall entertain them, and aiford them sanctu-
ary (Isa. xvi. 4). Again, God chasteneth as a “ Sovereign,” but teach-
et as a “ Father” (Ps. xcix. lg); the exercise of his authorit is not
without an exercise of his goo ness; he doth not correct for Kis own
pleasure, or the creature’s torment, but for the creature’s instruction;
though the rod bein the hand of a soverei n, yet it is tinctured with
the kindness of Divine bowels : he can orcier them as a sovereign to
mortif our flesh, and   our faith. In the severest tem st, the
Lord tliat raised the win against us, which shattered the gp, and
tore its rigging, can change t at contrary wind for a more happy one,
to drive us into the port.
6. It is a comfort against the pro'ects of the church’s adversaries
in times of public commotions. 'llhe consideration of the Divine
sovereignty may arm us against the threatenings of mighty ones, and
the menaces of persecutors. God hath authority above the crowns
of men, and a wisdom superior to the cabals of men; none can have
a step without him; he hath a negative voice upon their counsels, a
negative hand u on their motions; their politic resolves must stop at
the point he hatb rescribed them; their formidable strength cannot
exceed the limits Ee hath set them; their overreaching wisdom ex-
pires at the breath of God: “ There is no wisdom nor understanding
nor counsel against the Lord” (Prov. xxi. 30); not a bullet can be
dischar ed, nor a sword drawn, a wall battered, nor a ersou de-
spatched out of the world, without the leave of God, by Exe mighti-
est in the world. The instruments of Satan are no more free irom
his sovereign restraint than their inspirer; they cannot pull the hook
out of their nostrils, nor cast the bridle out of their mouths;'this
Sovereign can shake the earth, rend the heavens, overthrow moun-
tains, the most mountainous op osers of his interest. Though the
nations rush in ainst his eoplb like the rushing of many W'3f,€l'S,
“God shall reblriie them, tlie shall be chased as the chaff of the
mountains before the wind, and like a rolling thing before the whirl-
wind" (Isa. xvii. 13); so doth he often burst in pieces the most mis-
chievous designs, and conducts the oppressed to a halppy plort: he
often turns the severest tempests into a calm, as wel as t e most
peaceful calm into a horrible storm. How often hath a well-rigged
ship, that seemed to s urn the sea under her feet, and beat the waves
be ore her to a foam, been swallowed u into the bowels of that ele-
ment, over whose back she rode a littll; before! God never comes
to deliver his church as a governor, but in a wrathful ture (Ezek.
xx. 33) : “ Surely, saith the Lord, with a mighty hanmnd with an
outstretched arm, and with fur poured out, will I rule over you ;”
not with fury poured out u on the church, but fury poured out upon
her enemies, as the words fbllowing evidence : the church he would
bring out from the countries where she was scattered, and brin the
people into the bond of the covenant. He sometimes “ cuts og the
spirits of princes” (Ps. lxxvi. 12)i` i. e. cuts off their designs as men
o the pipes of awater-course. he hearts of all are as open to him

