ON GOD’S DOHINION. ' 458
as the riches of heaven, where he resides; he can slip an inclination
into the heart ofthe mighty, which they dreamed not of before; and
if he doth not change their projects, he can make them abortive, and
waylay them in their attempts. Laban marched with fury, but God
put a. padlock on his passion against Jacob (Gen. xxxi. 24, 29) ; the
devils, which ravage men’s minds, must be still when he gives out his
sovereign orders. This Sovereign can make his people find favor in
the e es of the cruel Egyptians, which had so long o ressed them
(Exodl xi. 8); and speak a good word in the heart of lllbbuchadnez-
zar for the prophet Jeremiah, that he should order his captain to
take him into his special protection, when he took Zedekiah away
prisoner in chains, and “put out his eyes” (Jer. xxxix. 11). His
people cannot want deliverance from Him who hath all the world at
is command, when he is pleased to bestow it; he hath as many in-
struments of deliverance as he hath creatures at his beck in heaven
or earth, from the meanest to the highest. As he is the Lord of hosts,
the church hath not only an interest in the strength he himself is
possessed with, but in the strength of all the creatures that are under
is command, in the elements below, and angels above. In those
armies of heaven, and in the inhabitants of the earth, he doth “what
he will” (Dan. iv. 35) ; they are all in order and array at his com
mand. There are anffels to em loy in a fatal stroke, lice and frogs
to quell the stubborn ‘hearts of his enemies; he can range his thun-
ders and li htnings, the cannon and granadoes of heaven, and the
worms of the earth in his service ;' he can muzzle lions, calm the
fury of the fire, turn his enemies’ swords into their own bowels, and
their artillery on their own breasts; set the wind in their teeth, and
make their chariot-wheels languish; make the sea enter a quarrel
with them, and wrap them in its waves till it hath stifled them in its
lap. The angels have storms, and tempests, and wars in their hands,
but at the disposal of God; when they shall cast them out against
the empire of antichrist (Rev.   1, 2), then shall Satan be discharged
from his throne, and no more seduce the nations; the everlasting
pel shall be preached, and God shall reign gloriously in Sion.
T; us, therefore, shelter ourselves in the Divine sovereignty, regard
God as the most high in our dangers and in our petitions. This was
David’s resolution (Ps. lvii. 1, 2); “I will ery unto God most high ;”
this dominion of God is the true “tower of David, wherein there are
a thousand shields” for defence and encouragement (Cant. iv. 4).
Use IV. If God hath an extensive dominion over the whole world,
this ought to be often meditated on, and acknowledged by us. 'l‘his
is the universal duty of mankind. If he be the Sovereign of all, we
should frequently think of our great Prince, and acknowledge our-
selves his subjects, and him our Lord. God will be acknowledged
the Lord of the whole earth; the neglect of this is the cause of the
judgments which are sent upon the world. All the plrodigies were
to this end, that they might know, or acknowledgle, t at “God was
the Lord" (Exod. x. 2) ; as God was roprietor, e demanded the
first-born of every Jew, and the first-born of every beast; the one
was to be redeemed, and the other sacrificed ; this was the quit rent
they were to pay to him for their fruitful land. The first-fruits of

