454 CHARNOCK ON THE ATPRIBUTES.
the earth were ordered to be paid to him, as a homage due to the
landlord, and an acknowledgment they held all in chief of him. The
practice of offering iirst-fruits for an acknowledgment of God’s sov-
ereignty, was among many of the heathens, and very ancient; hence
they dedicated some of the chief of their spoils, owning thereby the
dominion and goodness of God, whereby the had gained the vic-
tory; Cain owned this in oH'ering the fruits of? the earth, and it was
his sin he owned no more, viz., his being a sinner, and meriting the
justice of God, as his brother Abel did in his bloody sacrifice. God
wasta sovereign Pro rietor and Governor while man was in a state
of innocence; but when man proved a rebel, the soverei ty of God
bore another relation towards him, that of a Jud e, added to the
other. The first-'fruits might have been offered to god in a state of
innocence, as a homage to him as Lord of the manor of the world °
the design of them was to own God’s propriet in all things, and
men’s dependence on him for the iniiuences of lieaven in producing
the fruits of the earth, which he had ordered for their use. The de-
sigp of sacrifices, and placing beasts instead of the criminal, was to
ac nowledge their own guilt, and God as a sovereign Judge; Cain
Owned the Erst, but not the second; he acknowledged his de end-
ence on God as a Proprietor, but not his obnoxiousness to God) as a
Judge; which may be probably gathered from his own s h, when
God came t/o examine im, and ask him for his brother 23221. iv. 9):
“Am I my brother’s keeper ?” Why do you ask me ? though I own
thee as the Lord of my and and goods, yet I do not think m lf
accountable to thee for all m actions. This sovereignty ofyaiod
ought to be acknowledged in all the arts of it, in all the manifesta-
ttons of it to the creature; we should bear a sense of this always
upon our spirits, and be often in the tho hte of it in our retirements;
we should fancy that we saw God uiponuhis throne in his royal garb,
and great attendants about him, an take a view of it, to imprint an
awe u on om' spirits. The meditation of this would.,
1. lgix us on him as an object of trust. It is upon his sovereign
dominion as much as upon anything, that safe and secure confidence
is built; for if he had any superior above him to control him in his
designs and promises, his veracity and power would be of little eHi-
cacy to form our souls to a close adherency to him. It were not fit
to make him the object of our trust that can be -gainsayed by a
higher than himself, and had not a full authority to answer our ex-
pectations; if we were possessed with this notion fully and believ-
ingly, that God were high above all, that “his kingdom rules over
all,” we should not catch at every broken reed, and stand gaping for
comforts from a pebble stone. He that understands the authority of
a king, would not waive a reliance on his promise to depend upon
the breath of a changeling favorite. None but an iglnorant man
would change the security he may have upon the heig t of a rock,
to expect it from the dwarlishness of a mo ehill. To put confidence
in any inferior lord more than in the prince, is a fol y in civil con-
verse, but a rebellion in divine; God only bein above all, can only
rule all; can command thin to hcl us, ang cheek other things
which we depend on, and mafia them £11 short of our expectations.
I

