. ON eon’s nommos. 455
The due consideration of this doctrine would make us pierce through
second causes to the first, and look further than to the smaller sort
of sailors, that climb the ropes, and dress the sails, to the pilot that
sits at the helm, the master, that, by an indisputable authority, orders
all their notions. We should not depend upon second causes for
our support, but look beyond them to the authoritly of the Deity,
and the dominion he hath over all the works of his ands (Zech. X.
1): “ Ask ye of the Lord rain in the time of the latter rain ;" when
the seasons of the year conspire for the roducin such an effect,
when the usual time of rain is wheeled a§out in the year, stop not
your thoughts at the point of the heavens whence you extpect it, but
pierce thetheavens, and solicit God, who must give order or it before
it comes. The due meditation of all things depending on the Divine
dominion would strike off our hands from all other holds, so that no
creature would engross the dependence and trust which is due to the
First Cause; as we do not thank the heavens when they pour out
rain, so we are not to depend upon them when we want it; God is
to be sou ht to when the womb of second causes is opened to relieve
us, as wed as when the womb of second causes is barren, and brings
not forth its wonted progeny. _
2. It would make us diligent in worship. The consideration of
God, as the Supreme Lord, is the foundation of all religion : “ Our
Father, which art in heaven,” prefaceth the Lord’s prayer; “ Father”
is a name of authority ; “in heaven,” the place where he hath fixed his
throne, notes his government; not “my Father," but “ our Father,"
notes the extent of this authority. In all worship we acknowledge
the object of our worship our Lord, and ourselves his vassals; if we
bear a sense that he is our Sovereign King, it would draw us to him
in every exigence, and keep us with him in a reverential posture, in
every address; when we come, we should be careful not to violate
his right, but render him the homage due to his royalty. We should
not a pear before him with em ty souls, but filled with ,holy
thouglits: we should bring him the best of our flock, and present
him with the prime of~our strength; were we sensible we hold all
of him, we should not withhold anything from him which is more
worth than another. Our hearts would be framed into an awfif
regard, of him, when we consider that lorious and “fearful name,
the Lord our God" (Deut. xxviii. 58). §Ve should look to our feet
when we enter into his house; if we considered him in heaven upon
his throne, and ourselves on earth at his footstool (Eccles. v. 2),
lower before him than a worm before an angel, it would hinder gar-
nishness and lightness. The Jews, saith Capel, on 1 Tim. i. 17, re-
peat this expression, ::’>1:n -fan, King of worlds, or Eternal King;
probably the first original of it mig t be to stake them down from
wandering. When we consider the majesty of God, clothed with a
robe of light, sitting upon his high throne, adorned with his royal
ensigns, we should not enter into the presence of so great a Majesty
with the sacrifice of fools, with light motions and foolish thoughts,
as if he were one of our companions to be drolled with. We should
not hear his word as if it were the voice of some ordinary peasant.
The consideration of majesty would engender reverence in our ser-

