456 CHARNOCK ON THE .u'rnrsU'rr.s.
vice; it would also make us speak of God with honor and respect,
as of a great and glorious king, and not use defaming expressions of
him, as if he were an infamous being. And were he considered as
a terrible majesty, he would not be frequently solicited by some to
pronounce a damnation upon them upon every occasion.
3. It would make us charitable to others. Since he is our Lord,
the great Proprietor of the world, it is fit he should have a part of
mu' goods, as well as our time: he being the Lord both of our goods
and time. The Lord is to be honored with our substance (Prov. iii.
9); kings were not to be approached to without a resent; tribute
is due to kings: but because he hath no need oi) any from us to
bear up his state, maintain the charge of his wars, or ay his mili-
tary oiiicers and hosts, it is a debt due to him to acknowlied him in
his poor, to sustain those that are a part of his substance; than h he
stands in no need of it himself, yet the poor, that we have zivays
with us, do; as a seventh part of our weekly time, so some part of
our weekly gains, are due to him. There was to be a weekly laying
by in store somewhat of what God had prospered them, for the re-
lief of others (1 Cor. xvi. 1, 2); the quantity is not determined, that
is left to every man’s conscience, “according as God hath prospered
him” that week. If we did consider God as the Donor and Pro-
prietor, we should dispose of his gifts according to the design of the
true owner, and act in our laces as stewards entrusted b him, and
not purse up his part, as well as our own, in our coffers. %Ve should
not deny him a small guit rent, as an acknowledgement that we
have a (greater income rom him; we should be ready to give the
inconsi erable pittance he doth require of us, as an acknowledgment
of his propriety, as well as liberality. -
4. It would make us watchful, and arm us against all temptations.
Had Eve stuck to her first argument against the serpent, she had not
been instrumental to that destruction which mankind yet feel the
smart of (Gen. iii. SL: “ God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it;” the
great Governor of t e world hath laid his sovereign command upon
us in this point. The temptation gained no ground till her heart let
go the sense of this for the leasure of her e e and palate. The re-
petition of this, the great ford of the world hath said or ordered,
ad both unargumented and disarmed the tempter. A sense of
God’s dominion over us would discourage a temptation, and put it
out of countenance; it would bring us with a vigorous strength to
beat it back to a retreat. If this were as strongly urged as the
temptation, it would make the heart of the tempted strong, and the
motion of the tem ter feeble.
5. It would malge us entertain aillictions as they ought to be en-
tertained, mb., with a respect to God. When men make light of
any afllietion from God, it is a contempt of his sovereignty, as to
contemn the frown, disgaleasure, and check of a prince, is an affront
to majesty : it is as if t ey did not care a straw what God did with
them, but dare him to do his worst. There is a “ despising the
chastening of the Almighty” (Job, v. 17). To be unhumbled under
his hand. is as much, or more, afront to him, than to be impatient
under it. Afiiictions must be entertained as a check from heaven.

