ON Gorrs nommron. 457
as a iiown from the great Monarch of the world; under the feeling
of every stroke, we are to acknowledge his sovereignty and bounty;
to despise it, is to make light of his authority over us; as to despise
his favors is to make light of his kindness to us. A sense of God’s
dominion would make us observe every check from him, and not
diminish his authority b casting off a due sense of his correction.
6. This dominion of god would make us resign up ourselves to
God in everything. He that considers himself a thing made by
God, a vassal under his authorit , would not expostulate with him,
and call him to an account why he hath dealt so or so with him. It
would stab the vitals of all leas against him. We should not then
contest with him, but humgly la our cause at his feet, and say
with Eli, (1 Sam. iii. 18), “ It is the Lord, let him do what seems
good.” We should not commence a suit against God, when he doth
not answer our prayers presently, and send the mercy we want upon
the wings ofthe wind; he is the Lord, the Sovereign. The consid-
eration of this would put an end to om' quarrels with God; should
I expect that the Monarch of the world should wait upon me; or
I, a poor worm, wait upon him? Must I take state upon me be-
fore the throne of heaven, and expect the King of kings should
lay by his sceptre, to gratify my humor? Surely Jonah thought
God no more than his fellow, or his vassal, at that time when he
told him to his face he did well to be angry, as though God might
not do what he pleased with so small a thing as a goiud; he
speaks as if he would have sealed a lease of ejectment, to exclude
him from any propriety in anything in the world.
7. This dominion of God would sto our Vain curiosity. When
Peter was desirous to know the fate ol) John, the beloved disci le,
Christ answereth no more than this : (John, xxi. 22), “If I will that
he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou me.” Con-
sider your duty, and lay aside your curiosity, since it is my pleasure
not to reveal it. The sense of God’s absolute dominion would
silence many vain disputes in the world. What if God will not re-
veal this or that? the manner and method of his resolves should
humble the creatine under intruding inquiries
Use V. Of exhortation.
1. The doctrine ofthe dominion of God may teach us humility.
We are never truly abased, but by the consideration of the emi-
nence and excellency of the Deity. J ob never thought himself so
itiful a thing, so despicable a creature, as after Go ’s magnificent
seclamation upon the theme of his own sovereignty (Job, xlii. 5, 6).
When God’s name is regarded as the most excellent and sovereign
name in all the earth, then is the soul in the fittest temper to lie
low, and cry out, What is man, that so great a Majesty should be
mindful of him? When Abraham considers God as the supreme
Judge of all the earth, he then owns “ himself but dust and ashes”
(Gen. xviii. 25, 27). Indeed, how can vile and dusty man vaunt
before God, when angels, far more excellent creatures, cannot stand
before him, but with a veil on their faces? How little a thing is
man in regard of all the earth I How mean a thing is the earth in
regard of the vaster heavens! How poor a thing is the whole

