458 CHARNOOK ON THE A'l'.l'RIBU’I'ES.
world in comparison of God! How `tiful a thing is man, if com-
pared with so excellent a Majest I 'Fliere is as great a distance be-
tween God and man, as between being and not being; and the more
man considers the Divine royalty, the more disesteem he will have
of himself ; it would make him stoop and disrobe himself, and fall
low before the throne of the King of kings, throwing down before
his throne any crown he gloried in (Rev. iv. 10).
(1). In regard of authority. How unreasonable is pride in the
presence of majesty! How foolish is it for a country justice of
gace to think himself as great as his prince that commissioned him!
ow unreasonable is pride in the presence of the greatest sov~
ereignty! What, is human greatness before Divine? The stars
discover no light when the sun appears, but in a humble osture
withdraw in their lesser beams, to give the sole glory of enlighten-
ing the world to the sun, who is, as it were, the sovereign of those'
stars, and im arts a light unto them. The greatest prince is in-
finitely less, ii) compared with God, than the meanest scullion in his
kitchen can be before him. As the wisdom, goodness, and holiness
of a man is a mere mote compared to the goodness and holiness of
God, so is the authority of a man a mere trifle in regard of the
sovereignty of God: and who but a simple child woul be proud
of a mote or trifle? Let man be as great as he can, and command
others, he is still a subject to One greater than himself Pride would
then vanish like smoke at the serious consideration of this sov~
ereignty. One of the kings of this country did very handsomely
shame the flatte of his courtiers, that cried him up as lord of sea
and land, by oiidlering his chair to be set on the sand of the sea.
shore, when the tide was coming in, and commanding the waters
not to touch his feet, which when they did without any regard to
his authority, he took occasion thereby to put his ilatterers out of
countenanw, and instruct himself in a lesson of humility. “See,"
saith he, “how I rule all things, when so mean a thing as the water
will not obey me l” It is a ridiculous pride that the Turk and
Persian discover in their swelling titles. What poor sovereigns are
they, that cannot command a cloud, give out an effectual order for
a drop of rain, in a time of drought, or cause the bottles of heaven
to t1u°n their mouth another way in a time of too much moisture!
Yet their own prerogatives are so much in their minds, that they
jostle out all thoughts of the supreme prerogative of God, and give
thereby occasion to frequent rebellions against him.
(2). In regard of pro riety. And this doctrine is no less an
abatement of pride in the highest, as well as in the meanest; it
lowers pride in Ipoint of propriety, as well as in point of authority.
Is any proud o his possessions? how many lords of those posses-
sions have gone before youl how many are to follow youl* Your
dominion lasts but a short time, too short to be a cause of any
ride and glory in it. God by a sovereign power can take you
From them, or them from you, when he pleaseth. The traveller re-
fresheth himself in the heat of summer under a shady tree; how
many have done so before him the same day he knows not, and
' Raynard, do Deo, p. 766.

