ON Gon’s nom‘moN. _ 459
how many will have the benet a&er before night comes, he is as
much ignorant of ; he, and the others that went before him and
follow aiier him, use it for their refreshment, but none of them can
say, that they are the lords of it; the property is invested in some
ot _er person, whom perhaps they know not. The propriety of all
you have is in God, not truly in yourselves. Doth not that man
deserve scorn from you, who will play the roud fool in gay clotlies
and attire, which are known to be none ofxhis own, but borrowed ?
Is it not the same case with every proud man, though he hath a
property in his goods bi the law of the land? Is anything you
ave your own truly? it not lent you by the fgreat Lord? Is
it not the same vanity in any of you, to be proud o what you have
as God’s loan to you, as for such a one to be proud of what he hath
borrowed of man? And do you not make yourselves as ridiculous
to angels and good men, who know that though it is yours in op-
position to man, lyet it is not yours in opposition to God? they are
granted you on y for your use, as the collar of esses and sword,
and other ensigns of the chief magistrate in the city, pass through
many hands in regard of the use o them, but the propriety remains
in the community and body of the city: or as the silver plate of a
person that invites “you to a feast is for your use during the time
of the invitation. hat ground is there to be proud of those things
you are not the absolute lords and proprietors ot; but only have
the use of them anted to you during the pleasure of the Sov-
ereign of the world-l
2. Praise and thankfulness result from this doctrine of the sov-
ereignt§ of God.
(ll). e is to be praised for his royalty. (Ps. cxlv. 1), “I will ex-
tol thee, my God, O King.” The Psalmist calls u n men five
times to sing praise to him as King of all the   (Ps. xlvii.
6, 7), “Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing   to our king,
sing praises: for God is the King of all the eart ; sing ye praises
with understanding.” A All creatures, even the inanimate ones, are
called upon to praise him because of the excellency of his name
and the supremacy of his glory, in the 148th Psalm throughout,
and ver. 13. That Sovereign Power that gave us hearts and
tongues, deserves to have them employed in his praises, especially
since he hath by the same hand given us so great matter for it. As
he is a Sovereign we owe him thankfulness; he doth not deal with
us in a way of absolute dominion ; he might then have annihilated
us, since he hath as full a dominion to reduce us to nothing. Con~
sider the absoluteness of his sovereignty in itself; and you must
needs acknowledge that he might have multiplied precepts, enjoined
us the observance of more than he hath done ; he might have made
our tether much shorter; he might exact obedience, and promise
no reward for it; he might dash us against the walls, as a potter
doth his vessel, and no man have any just reason to say, What dost
thou? or, Why dost thou use me so? A greater right is in him to
use us in such a manner as we do sensib e as well as insensible
things. And if you consider his dominion as it is capable to be ex-
ercised in a way of unquestionable justice, and submitted to the

