460 _ c11A1¢Nocx°oN 'mn A'I'I’RIBUTES.
reason and judgments of creatures, he might have dealt with us in
a smarter way than he hath hitherto done; instead of one aiiliction,
,we might have had a thousand: he might have shut his own hands
from pouring out any good uppn us, and ordered innumerable
scourges to be ggpared for us; ut he deals not with us according
to the rights of ` dominion. He doth not oppress us b the great-
ness of his majesty; he enters into covenant with us, and, allures us
by the chords of a man, and shows himselfas much a merciful as
an absolute Sovereign.
(2.) As he is a Proprietor, we owe him thankfulness. He is at his
own choice whether he will bestow upon us any blessin or no; the
more value, therefore, his benefits deserve from us, ands the Donor
the more sincere returns. If we have anythin from the creature to
serve our turn, it itby the order of the c ief grpprietor. He is the
spring of honor, and the fountain of supplies: creatures are but
as the conduit pipes in a great city, which serve several houses with
water, but from t e great spring. All things are conveyed ori inally
from his own hand, and are dispensed from his exchequer. lf this
great Sovereign did not order t em, you would have no more sup-
plies from a creature than you could ave nourishment from a chip:
it is the Divine will in everything that doth us good; every favor
'from creatures is but a smi e from God, an evidence of his royalty
to move us to pay a respect to him as the great Lord. Some hea-
thens had so muc respect for God, as to conclude that his will, and
not their prudence, was the chief conductor of their aH`airs. His
goodness to us calls for our thankfulness, but his sovereignty calls
or a higher elevation of it: a smile from a prince is more valued,
and thought worthy of more gratitude, than a present from a peasant;
a small gift from a great person is more grateiiilly to be received
than a larger from an inferior person: the condescension of royalty
magnifies the gilt. What is man, that thou, so great a Majest , art
mindful of him, to bestow this or that favor upon him ?-is but a
due reflection u on every blessing we receive. Upon every fresh
blessing we should acknowledge the Donor and true Proprietor, and
gye him the honor of his dominion: his pniperty ought to be thank-
ly owned in everything we are capable o consecrating to him; as
David, after the liberal collection he had made for the building of
the temple, owns in his dedication of it to that use the pro riety of
God: “Who am I, and what is my peo le, that we should) be able
to offer so willingly after this sort? for as things come of thee, and
of thine own have we given thee” (1 Chron. xxix. 14): it was but a
return of God’s own to him, as the waters of the river are no other
than the return to the sea of what was taken from it. Praise and
thankfulness is a rent due from all mankind, and from every crea-
ture, to the great Landlord, since all are tenants, and hold by him
at his will. “ Every creature in heaven and earth, and under the
earth, and in the sea,” were heard, by John, to ascribe “ blessing,
honor, glory, and power, to Him that sits on the throne” (Rev. v. 13).
We are as much bound to the sovereignty of God for his preserva
tion of , us, as for his creation .of us; we are no less obliged to him
that preserves our beings when exposed to dangers, than we are for

