ON Gorrs nomN1oN. 461
bestowing a being upon us when we were not capable of danger.
Thankfulness is due to this Sovereign for public concerns. Hath
he not preserved the ship of his church in the midst of whistlin
winds and roaring waves; in the midst of the combats of men and
devils; and rescued it often when it hath been near shipwrecked?
3. How should we be induced from hence to promote the honor
of this Sovereign! We should advance him as supreme, and all our
actions should concur in his honor: we should return to his glory
what we have received from his sovcreignt , and enjoy by his mere :
he that is the superior of all, ought to be the end of all. This is the
harmony of the creation; that which is of an inferior nature is or-
dered to the service of that which is of a more excellent nature;
thus water and earth, that have a lower being, are employed for the
honor and beauty of the plants of the earth, who are more excellent
in having a rinciple of a. growing life: these (plants are again sub-
servient to the beasts and birds, which excee them in a principle
of sense, which the others want: those beasts and birds are ordered
for the good of man, who is superior to them in a principle of reason,
and is invested with a dominion over them. Man having God for
his superior, ought as much to serve the glory of God, as other
things are designed to be useful to man. Other governments are
intended for the good of the community, the chief end is not the
good of the governors themselves: but God being every way sover-
eign, the sovereign Being, giving being to all things, the sovereign
Ruler, giving or er and preservation to all things, is also the end
of all things, to whose glory and honor all things, all creatures, are
to be subservient; “for of him. and through him, and to him, are
all things, to whom be lory for ever” (Rom. xi. 36): ey' him, as the
efficient cause; through aim, as the preserving cause; to him, as the
Bnal cause. All our actions and thoughts ought to be addressed to
his glory; our whole beings ought to be consecrated to his honor,
though we should have no reward but the honor of having been
subservient to the end of oiu° creation: so much doth the excellency
and majesty of God, infinitely elevated above us, challenge of us.
Subjects use to value the safety, honor, and satisfaction of a good
prince above their own: David is accounted worth ten thousand of
the people; and some of his courtiers thought themselves obliged to
venture their lives for his satisfaction in so mean a thing as a little
water from the well of Bethlehem. Doth not so great, so good a
Sovereign as God, deserve the same affection from us? “Do we
swear,” saith a heathen, “to prefer none before Cmsar, and have we
not greater reason to prefer none before God ?”Y It is a justice due
from us to God to maintain his glory, as it is a justice to preserve
the right and property of another. As God would lay aside his
Deity if he did deny himself; so a creature acts irregularly, and out
of the rank of a creature, if it doth not deny itself for God. He that
makes himself his own end, makes himself his own sovereign. To
napkin up a gift he hath bestowed upon us, or to employ what we
possess solely to our own glory, to use anything barely for ourselves,
without respect to God, is to apply it to a wrong use, and to injure
1 Aman in Epictet.

