462 cnruzsocx os 'rrm Arramurss.
God in his propriety, and the end of his donation. What we have
ought to be used for the honor of God; he retains the dominion and
lordship, though he grants us the use: we are but stewards, not pro-
prietors, in regard to God., who ex}pects an account from us, ow
we have employed his goods to his onor. The kingdom of God is
to be advanced by us: we are to pray that his kingdom may come:
we are to endeavor that his kingdom may come, that is, that God
may be known to be the chief Sovereign; that his dominion, which
was obscured by Adam’s fall, may be more manifested; that his sub-
jects, which are suppressed in the world, may be supported; his
laws, which are violated by the rebellions of men, may be more
obeyed; and his enemies be fully subdued by his final judgment, the
last evidence of his dominion in this state of the world; that the
em ire of sin and the devil may be abolished, and the kingdom of
God perfected, that none may rule but the great and rightful Sover-
eign. Thus while we endeavor to advance the honor of his throne, we
shall not want an honor to ourselves. He is too gracious a Sovereign
to neglect them that are mindful of his glory; “those that honor
him, he will honor" (1 Sam.   80).
4. Fear and reverence of God in himself; and in his actions, is a
duty incumbent on us from this doctrine (Jer. x. 7 ): “Who would
not fear thee, O King of nations Y” The ingratitude of the world is
taxed in not reverencing God as a great king, who had given so
many marks of his roya government among them. The (prophet
wonders there was no fear of so great a King in the worl , since,
“ among all the wise men of the nations, and among all their kings,
there is none like unto this ;” no more reverence of him, since none
ruled so wisely, nor any ruled so graciously. The dominion of God
is one ofthe Hrst sparks that gives fire to religion and worship, con-
sidered with the goodness of this Sovereign (Ps. xii. 27, 28): “All
the nations shall worship before thee, for the kingdom is the Lord’s,
and he is Governor among the nations." Epicurus, who thought
God careless of human affairs, leaving them at hap-hazard, to the
conduct of men’s wisdom and mutability of fortune, yet acknowl-
edged that God ought to be worshipped by man for the excellency
of his nature, and the greatness of his majesty. How should we
reverence that God, that hath a throne encompassed with such glo~
rious creatures as angels, whose faces we are not able to behold,
though shadowed in assumed bodies! how should we fear the Lord
of Hosts, that hath so many armies at his command in the heavens
above, and in the earth below, whom he can dispose to the exact
obedience of his will! how should men be' afraid to censure any of
his actions, to sit judge of their Judge, and call him to an account at
their bar! how should such an earth-worm, a mean animal as man,
be afraid to speak irreverently of so great a King among his pots
and strumpetsl Not to fear him, not to reverence him, is to ull
his throne from imder him, and` make him of a lower authority than
ourselves, or any creatine that we reverence more.
5. Prayer to God, and trust in him, is inferred from his sovereign-
ty. If he be the supreme Sovereign, holding heaven and earth in
his hand, disposing all things here below, not committing everything

