ON eoD's DomN1oN 463
to the iniiuence of the stars or the humors of men, we ought, then,
to apply ourselves to him in every case, implore the exercise of his
authorig; we hereby own his culiar ri ht over all things and per-
sons. e only is the supreme gead in 5 causes, and over all per-
sons: “Thine is the kingdom” (Matt. vi. 13), concludes the Lord's
prayer, both as a motive to pray, and a ground to expect what we
Want. He that believes nqt God’s government will think it needless
to call upon him, will expect no refuge under him in a strait, but
make some creature-reed his support. If we do not seek to him,
but rel upon the dominion we have over our own possessions. ur
upon the authority of anything else, we disown his supremacy at J
dominion over all things; we have as good an opinion of ourselve;
or of some creatures, as we ought to have of od; we think our-
selves, or some natural cause we seek to or depend upon, as much
soverei ns as he, and that all things which concern us are as much
at the cispose of an inferior, as of the great Lord. It is, indeed, to
make a god of ourselves, or of the creature; when we seek to him.,
upon all occasions, we own this Divine eminency, we acknowledge
that it is by him men’s hearts are ordered, the world governed, all
things disposed; and God, that is jealous of his glory, is best leas-j
ed with any duty in the creature that doth acknowledge and desire
the glorification of it, which prayer and dipendence on him doth
in a. special manner, desiring the exercise .o his authority, and the
preservation of it in ordering the affairs of the world.
6. Obedience naturally results from this doctrine. As his justice
requires fear, his goodness thankfulness, his faithfulness trust, his
truth belief, so his sovereignty, in the nature of it, demands obe-
dience: as it is most fit he should rule, in regard of his excellenc ,
so it is most at we should obey him in regard of his authority: live
is our Lord, and we his subjects; he is our Master, and we his ser-
vants; it is righteous we should observe him, and conform to his
will: he is everything that speaks an authority to command us, and
that can challenge an humility in us to obey. As that is the truest
doctrine that subjects us most to God, so he is the truest Christian
that doth, in his practice, most acknowledge this subjection; and as
sovereignt is the Hrst notion a creature can have of God, so obe~
dience is the first and chief thing conscience reflects upon the crea-
ture. Man holds all of God; and therefore owes all t e operations
capable to be roduoed by those faculties to that Sovereign Power
that endowed llim with them. Man had no beinfg but from him; he
hath no motion without him; he should, there ore, have no being
but for him; and no motion but according to him: to call' him
Lord, and not to act in subjection to him, is to mock and put ascorn
upon him (Luke vi. 46): “ Whly' call you me Lord, Lord, and do
not the things that I say ?" t is like the crucifying Christ un-
der the title of a King. It is not by professions, but by observ-
ance of the laws of a prince, that we manifest a due respect to
him: by that we reverence that authority that enacted them, and
the rudence that framed them.
This doctrine affords us motives to obey, and directs us to the
manner of obedience.

