464 cmumocx ON rin: .u'mmU'r1=:s.
lst. Motives to obey,
(L) It is comely and orderly. Is it not a more becoming thinvtc
be ruled by the will of our Sovereign than by that of our lusts?-
to observe a wise and gracious Authority, than to set up inordinate
appetites in the room of his law? Vlfould not all men account it a
disorder to be abominated, to see a slave or vassal control the just
orders of his lord, and endeavor to subject his master’s will to his
own? much more to expect God should serve our humor rather
than we be regulated by his will. It is more orderly that subjects
should obey their governors, than governors their subjects; that
passion should obey reason, than reason obey passion. \Vhen good
governors are to conform to subjeetsf and reason veil to passion, it is
monstrous! the one disturbs the order of a community, and the
other dethceth the beauty of the soul. Is it a comely thing for God
to stoo to our meanness, or for us to stoop to his gre atness?
(2.) lin regard of the Divine sovereignty, it is both ‘honorable and
advantageous to obey God. It is, indeed, the glory of a superior to
be obeyed by his inferior; but where the sovereign is of transcend-
ent excellency and dignity, it is an hohor to a mean person to be
under his immediate commands, and enrolled in his service. It is
more honor to be God’s subject than to be the greatest worldly
monarch; his very service is an empire, and disobedience to him is
a slavery. It is a part of his sovereignty to reward any service
done him! Other lords may be willing to recompense the service of
their subjects, but are often rendered unable; but nothing can stand
in the way of God to hinder your reward, if nothing stand in your
way to hinder your obedience (Lev. xviii. fy: “Ili you keep my
statutes, you shall live in them; I am the Lor ." Is there anything
in the world can recompense you for rebellion against God, and obe-
dience to a lust? Saul cools the hearts of his servants from running
after David, by David’s inability to give them Helds and vineyards
(1`Sam. xxii. 7): “ Will the son of Jesse give every one of you
fields and vineyards, and make you captains of thousands, and cap-
tains of hundreds, that you have conspired against me Y" But God
hath a dominion to requite, as well as an authority to command
your obedience; he is a great Sovereign, to bear you out in your
observance of his precepts against all reproachcs and violence of
men, andat last to crown you with eternal honor. If he should
neglect vindicating, one time or other, your loyalty to him, he
will neglect the maintaining and vindicatiug his own sovereignty
and greatness.
(3.) God, in all his dispensations to man, was careful to preserve
the rights of his sovereignty in exacting obedience of his creature.
The second thing he manifested his sovereignty in was that of a
Lawgiver to Adam, after that of a Proprietor in giving him the pos-
session of the garden ; one followed immediately the other (Gen. ii.
15, 16 : “ The Lord God took the man, and put him into the gar-
den o Eden, to dress it, and the Lord God commanded the man,
saying, Of ever y tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, but of
the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it,"
' Servire, Deo regnare est. .

