\
ON aon‘s DOMINION. 465
&c. Nothin was to be en`oyed by man but upon the condition of
obedience toiis Lord; and it is observed that in the descri tion of
the creation, God is not called “Lord” till the finishing of the crea-
tion, and particularly in the forming of man. “ And the Lord God
formed man" (Gen. ii. 7). Though he was Lord of all creatures, yet
it was in man he would have his sovereignty particularl manifest-
ed, and by man have his authorit specially acknowledged. The
law is prefaced with this title: “ lyam the Lord thy God” (Exod.
xx. 2): authorityein Lord, sweetness in God, the one to enjoin, the
other to allure o dience; and God enforceth several of the com-
mands with the same title. And as he begins many prece ts with
it, so he concludes them with the same title, “ I am the Lord,” Lev.
xix. 37, and in other places. In all his communications of his good-
ness to man in ways of blessing them, he stands upon the preserva-
tion of the rights of his sovereignty, and manifests his graciousness
in favor of his authority. “ I am the Lord your God,” your God in
all my perfections for your advantage, but yet your Sovereign for
your obedience. In al his condescension he wil have the rights of
this untouched and unviolated by us. When Christ would give the
most pregnant instance of his condescending and humble kindness,
he urgeth his authority to ballast their spirits from any presumptu-
ous eruptions because of his humility. “ You call me Master, and
Lord; and you say well: for so I am” (John, xiii. 13). He asserts
his authority, and presseth them to their duty, when he had seemed
to lay it by for the demeanor of a servant, and had, below the di -
nity of a master, put on the humility of a mean underling, to Wai
the disciples feet; all which was to oblige them to perform the com-
mand hc then gave them (ver. 14), and in obedience to his author-
ity, and imitation of his example.
(-1.) All creatures obey him. All creatures punctually observe
the law he hath im rinted on their nature, and in their several capa-
cities acknowledge ,him their Sovereign; they move according to the
inclinations he imprinted on them. The sea contains itself in its
bounds, and the sun ste s out of its s here; the stars march in their
order, “they continue dhis day according to thy ordinance, for all
are thy servants" (Ps. cxix. 91). If he orders things contrary to their
rimitive nature, they obey him. lVhen he speaks the word, the
sevourinfr fire becomes gentle, and toucheth not a hair of the
children he will preserve; the hunger~starved lions suspend their
ravenous nature, when so good a morsel as Daniel is set betbre them;
and thc sun, which had been in perpetual motion since its creation,
obeys the writ of ease God sent it in J oshua’s time, and stands still.
Shall insensible and sensible creatures be punctual to his orders, as-
sively acknowledge his authority? shall lions and serpents obey
God in their places?-and shall not man, who can, by reason, argue
out the sovereignty of God, and understand the sense and goodness
of his laws, and actively obey God with that will he hath enriched
him with above other creatures? Yet the truth is, every sensitive,
yea, every senseless creature, obeyls God more than his rational, more
than his ious creatures in t is world. The rational creatures
since the gllchave a prevailing principle of corruption. Let the obe-
voi.. ix.-30

