466 cnaasocx on 'nm .u'rmsUrss.
dience of other creatures incite us more to imitate them, and shams
our remissness in not acknowledging the dominion of God, in the
just way he prescribes us to walk in. Well then, let us not pretend
to own God as our Lord, and yet act the part of rebels; let us give
him the reverence, and pay him that obedience, which of right be-
longs to so great a King. Whatsoever he speaks as a true God_
ought to be believed; whatsoever he orders as a sovereign God,
ought to be obeyed; let not God have less than man, nor man have
more than God. It is a common principle writ upon the reason of
all men, that respect and observance is ue to the majesty of a man,
much more to the Majesty of God as a Lawgiver.
2d. As this doctrine presents us motives, so it directs us to the
manner and kind of our obedience to God.
(1.) It must be with a respect to his authority. As the veracity
of God is the formal object of faith, and the reason why we believe
the things he hath revealed; so the authority of God is the formal
object of our obedience, or the reason why we observe the things he
hath commanded. There must be a respect to his will as the rule,
as well as to his glory as the end. It is not formally obedience that
is not done with regard to the order of God, though it may be ma-
terially obedience, as it answers the matter of the precept. As when
men will abstain from excess and rioting, because it is ruinous to
their health, not because it is forbidden by the great Lawgiver; this
is to pay a respect to our own conveniency and interest, not a con-
scientious, observance to God; a regard to our health, not to our
Sovereign; a kindnessto ourselves, not a justice due to the rights
of God. There must not only be a consideration of the matter ofthe
pgecept as convenient, but a consideration of the authority of the
wgiver as obligatory. “Thus saith the Lord,” ushers in every'
order of his, directing our eye to the authority enacting it; Jero-
boam did God’s will of prophecy in taking the kingdom of Israel ',
and the devils may be subservient in God s will or providence; but
neither of them are put upon the account of obedience, because not
done intentionally with any conscience of the sovereignty of God.
God will have this owned by a regular respect to it; so much he insists
upon the honor of it, that the sacrince of Christ, God-man, was
most agreeable to him, not only as it was great and admirable in it-
self; but also for- that ravishing obedience to his will, which was the
life and glory of his sacrifice, whereby the justice of God was not
only owned in the oifering, but the sovereignty of God owned in the
obedience. “He became obedient unto death; wherefore God highly
exalted him” (Phil.   Sjgest .
(2.) It must be the and most exact obedience. The most.
sovereign authorit calls for the exactest and lowest observance; the
highest Lord for the deepest homage; being, he is, a “great King,
he must have the best in our flock’ (Mal. i. 14). Obedience is due
to God, as King, and the choicest obedience is due to him, as he is
the most excellent King. The more majestic and noble any man is,
the more careful we are in our manner of service to him. We are
bound to obey God, not only under the title of a “Lord” in regard
of jurisdiction and political subjection, but under the title of a true

