ON Gorvs DOKINION. 487
“Lord and Master," in regard of propriety; since we are not onl
his subjects but his servants, the exactest obedience is due to Gmi
fare servitutzls; “When you have done all, say you are improfitable
servants” éliuke, xvii. 10), because we can do nothing whic we owe
not to Go .
(3.) Sincere and inward obedience. As it is a part of his sover-
eignty to prescribe laws not only to man in his outward state, but
to his conscience, so it is a art of our subjection to receive his laws
into our will and heart. The authority of his laws exceeds human
laws in the extent and riches of them, and our acknowledgment of
his sovereignty cannot be right, but by sub`ectin the faculties of our
soul to the Lawgiver of our souls; we else aclrnowledge his au-
thority to be as limited as the empire of man; when his will not
only swaiys the outward action, but the inward motion, it is a giving
him the onor of his high throne above the throne of mortals. The
right of God ought to be preserved undamaged in affection, as well
as action.
t   It must be sole obedience. We are ordered to serve him only;
“ im only shalt thou serve” (Matt. iv. 10): as the onl Supreme
Lord, as being the highest Sovereign, it is fit he should have the
highest obedience before all earthly sovereigns, and as being unpar-
alleled by any among all the nations, so none must have an obe-
dience equal to him. When God commands, if the highest power
on earth countermands it, the precept of God must be preferred be~
fore the countermand of the creature. “ Whether it be right in the
si ht of God, to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye”
(gets, iv. 18, 19). We must never give place to the authority of all
the monarchs in the World, to the prejudice of that obedience we owe
to the Supreme Monarch of heaven .and earth; this would be to
place the throne of God at the footstool of man, and debase him
low the rank of a creature. Lo altv to man can never recom ense
for the mischief accruing from dislb alty to God. All the obedrience
we are to give to man, is to be paid? in obedience to God, and with
an eye to his precept: therefore, what servants do for their masters,
they must do “as to the Lord” (Col. iii. 23); and children are to
obey their parents “ in the Lord” (Eph. vi. 1). The authority of
Go is to be eyed in all the services payable to man; proper and
true obedience hath God solely for its principal and primary object;
all obedience to man that interferes with that, and would justle out
obedience to God, is to be refused. What obedience is due to man,
is but rendered as a part of obedienceto God, and a stooping of his
authority.
(5.) It must be universal obedience. The laws of man are not to
be universally- obeyed ; some may be oppressing and unjust: no man
hath authority to make an unjust law, and no subject is bound to
obey an unrigliteous law; but God being a righteous Sovereia,
there is not one of his laws but doth necessarily oblige us to o -
dieuce. \Vl1fitsee\'cr this Supreme Power declares to be his will, it
must be our care to observe; man, being his creature, is bound to
be subject to whatsoever laws hedoth impose to the meanest as well
as to the greatest: they having equally a stamp of Divine authority

