  CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
upon them. We are not to pick and choose among his precepts.
this is to fiare-away part of his authority, and render him a half sov-
ereign. t must be universal in all places. An Englishman in
Spain-is bound to obey the laws of that wuntry wherein he resides:
and so not res nsible there for the breach of the laws of his native
countr . In dh; same condition is a Spaniard in England. But the
laws oiy God are to be obeyed in every part of the world; whereso-
ever Divine Providence doth cast us, it casts us not out of the places
where he commands, nor out of the compass of his own em ire. He
is Lord of the world, and his laws oblige in every part of the world;
they were ordered for a world, and not for a particular climate and
territo .
(6.) lit must be indisputable obedience. All authority requires
readiness in the subject; the centluion had it from his sol iexs; they
went when he ordered them, and came when he beckoned to them
$Matt. viii. 9). It is more it God should have the same promptness
rom his subjects. We are to obeiy his orders, though our purblind
understandin may not apprehen the reason of every one of them.
It is without dispute that he is sovereign, and therefore it is without
dispute that we are bound to obey him, without controlling his
conduct. A master will not hear it from his slave, why should
God from his creature? Though God admits his creatures some-
times to treat with him about the equality of his justice, and
also about the reason of some commands, et sometimes he gives no
other reason but his own sovereignty, “'¥hus saith the Lord ;” to
correct the malapertness of men, and exact from them an entire obe-
dience to his unlimited and absolute authority. When Abraham was
commanded to offer Isaac, God acquaints him not with the reason
of his demand till after (Gen. xxii. 2, 12), nor did Abraham enter
any dernur to the order, or expostnlate with God, either from his
own natural affection to Isaac, t e hardness of the command, it being,
as it were, a ripping up of his own bowels, nor the guickness of it
after he had been a chi d of the promise, andaDivine onation above
the course of nature. Nor did Paul confer with Hesh and blood,
and stud arguments from nature and interest to oppose the Divine
command when he was sent upon hispapostolical employment (Gal.
i. 16). The more indisputable is right is to command, the stronger is
our obligation to obey, without questioning the reason of his orders
(7.) It must be joyful obedience. Men are commonly more cheer
ful in their obedience to a great prince than to a mean peasant; be-
cause the quality of the master renders the service more honorable.
It is a discredit to a prince’s government, when his subjects obey
him with discontent and dejectedness, as though he were a hard
master, and his laws tyrannical and unrighteous. When we pay
obedience but with a. dull and feeble pace, and a sour and sad tem-
per, we blemish our great Sovereign, imply his commands to be
grievous, void of that peace and pleasure he proclaims to be in them;
that he deserves no respect from us, if we obe him because we
must, and not because we will. Involuntary obedience deserves not
the title: it is rather submission than obedience, an act of the body,
not of the mind: a mite of obedience with cheerfulness, is better

