ON sons nommoit. 469
than a talent without it. In the little Paul did, he comforts himself
in this, that with the “ mind he served the law of God” (Rom. vii.
25); the testimonies of God were David’s delight qs. cxix. 24). Our
understandin must take leasure in knowing im, our wills de-
lightfully embsrace him, anld om' actions be c eerfullys uared to
him. This credits the sovereignty of God in the world, makes
others believe him to be a gracious Lord, and move them to have
some veneration for his authority.
(8.) It must be a. perpetual obedience. As man is a subject as
soon as he is a creature, so he is a subject as longas he is a creature.
God’s sovereignty is of perpetual duration, as long as he is God;
ma.n’s obedience must be perpetual, while he is a man. God cannot
part with his sovereignty, and a creature cannot be exempted from
subiection; we must not only serve him, but cleave to him SDeut.
  4). Obedience is continued in heaven, his throne is estab ished
in heaven, it must be bowed to in heaven, as well as in earth. The
angels continually fulil his pleasure.
.  . Patience 18 a duty flowing from this doctrine. In
all strokes upon ourselves, or thick showers upon the church, “the
Lord reigns,’ is a consideration to prevent muttering inst him,
and make us quietly wait to see what the issue ofaiis Divine
pleasure will be. It is too great an insolence against the Divine
ajesty to censure what he acts, or quarrel with him for what
he iniiicts. Proud clay doth ve unbecomingly swell against an
inlinite superior. If God be ou.rr§overeign, we ought to subscribe
to his aiilicting will without debates, as well as to his liberal will
with affectionate applauses. We should be as full of patience
under his sharper, as of raise under his more grateful, dispen-
sations, and be without reiiictancy against his penal, as well as his
preceptive, pleasure. It is God’s part to infiict, and the creature’s
part to submit.
This doctrine a&'ords us motives, and shows us the nature of pa-
tience. 1. Motives to it. p
(L) God, being Sovereign, hath an absolute right to dispose of
all things. His title to our persons and possessions is, upon this ao-
count, stronger than our own can be ; we have as much reason to be
angry with ourselves, when we assert our worldly right against
others, as to be angry with God for asserting the right of his domin-
ion over us. Why should we enter a charge against him, because
he hath not tem ered us so strong in om' bodies, drawn us with as
fair colors, embellished our spirits with as rich gifts as others? Is
he not the Sovereign of his own goods, to impart what, and in what
measure, he pleaseth? Would you be content your servants should
check your p easure in dispensing your own favors? It is an un-
reasonable t in not to leave God to the exercise of his own domin-
ion. Though .ab were a attern of patience, yet he had dee tinc-
tures of impatience; he ogen complains of God’s usage of him as
too hard., and stands much upon his own integrity; but when God
comes, in the latter chapters of that book, to justify his carriage to-
wards him, he chargeth him not as a criminal, but considers him
only as his vassal. He might have found flaws enough in J ob’s car-

