470 cnsnsocx oN. rm: yrramnrrs.
riage, and corruption enough in J ob’s natiue, to clear the equity of
his proceeding as a judge; but he .useth no other medium to con-
vince him, but the greatness of his Majzsgty, the unlimitedness of
his sovereignty, which so ap£a.ls the g man, that he puts his
finger on his mouth andstan mute with a self-abhorrency; before
him, as a Sovereign, rather than as a Judge. When he dot pinch
us, and deprive us of what we most affect, his right to do it s ould
silence our lips and calm our hearts from any boisterous uproars
against him.
(2.) The roperty of all still remains in God, since he is sovereign.
He did not divest himself of the roperty when he granted us the use;
the earth is his, not ours; the fulness any of us have, as well as the
fulness others have. After he had given the Israelites corn, wing
and oil, he calls them all his, and emphaticall adds my, to every
one of them (Hes. ii. 9). His right is universal, over every mite we
have, and Hperpetual too; he may, therefore, take from us what he
please. e did but deposit in our hands for awhile the benetits we
enjoy, either children, friends, estate, or lives; he did not make a
total conveyance of them, and alienate his own property, when he
put them into our hands; we can show no stent for them, wherein
the full right is passed over to us, to hold tli)em against his will and
pleasure, and implead him if he offer to re-assume them: he re~
served a power to dispossess us upon a forfeiture, as he is the Inrd
and Governor. Did any of us yet answer the condition of his grant?
it was his indulgence to allow them so long; there is reason to sub-
mit to him, when he re-assumes what he lent us, and rather to thank
him that he lent it so long, and did not seize upon it sooner.
(3.) Other things have more reason to complain of our sover-
eignty over them, than we of God’s exercise .of his sovereignty
over us. Do we not exercise an authority over our beasts, as to
strike them when we please, and merely for om' pleasure; and
think we merit no reproof for it, because they are our own, and
of a nature inferior te ours? And shall not God, who is abso»
lute, do as much with us, who are more below him than the mean-
est creatures are below us? They are creatures as well as we, and
we no more creatures than they; the were framed by Omnipotenee
as well as we; there is no more diiiiirenee between them and us in
the notion of creatures. As there is no difference between the great~
est monarch on earth, and the meanest beggar on the dunghill, in
the notion of a man; the be gar is a man, as well as the monarch,
and as much a man; the .digerence consists in the s ial endow-
ments we have above them by the bounty of their anflénclir common
Creator. We are less, if compared with God., than the worst, mean-
est, and most sordid creature can be, if compared with us. Hath not
a bird or a hare (if they had a capaeit ) more reason to complain of
men’s persecuting them by their hawks and their dogs? but would
their complaints appear reasonable, since both were made for the use
of man, and man oth but use the nature of the one to attain a
benelit by the other? Have we any reason to complain of God if
he lets loose other creatures, the devouring hounds of the world, to
.bite and afflict us? We must not open our lips against him,nor

