ON Gon‘s DOMINION. 471
let our heart swell against his scourge, since both .they and we
were made for his use, as well as other creatures for our; this is a
reason to stifle all complaints against God, but not to make us care-
less of preventing afilictions, or emerging out of them by all just
ways. The hare hath a. nature to shift for itself by its windiplg and
turnin , and the bird b its flight; and neither of them co d be
blameci if the were ablse, should the one scratch out the eyes of the
hounds, and the other sacrifice the hawk to its own fury.
(4.) It is a folly not to submit to him. Why should we strive
against him, since he is an unaccountable Sovereign, and “ gives no
account of any of his matters ?” ,§Job, xxxiii. 13.) Who can dis-
annul the judgment God gives? here is no ap eal from the su-
preme court; a higher court can repeal or null the sentence of an
mferior court, but the sentence of the highest stands irreversible, but
by itself and its own authorit . It is better to lower our sails, than
to grapple with one that can shoot us under water; to submit to that
Sovereign whom we cannot subdue.
2. It shows us the true nature of patience in regard of God: it is
a submission to God’s sovereignty. As the formal object of obe-
dience is the authority of God enacting the law, so the formal object
of patience is the authority of God inflicting the plunishment: as his
rig t of commanding is to be eyed in the one, so is right of punish-
ing is to be considered in the other. This was Eli’s condition, when
he had received a message that might put flesh and blood into a
mutiny, the rending the priesthood from his famil , and the ruin of
his house: yet this consideration, “ It is the Lordjl’ calms him into
submission, and a willing compliance with the Divine pleasure (1
Sam. iii. 188; “It is the Lord, let him do what seems ood in his
sight.” Jo was of the same strain (Job, i. 21): “The Lord gives,
and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord ;”
he considers God as a sovereign, who was not to be reproached, or
have anything uucomely uttered of him, for what he had done. To
be patient because we cannot avoid it, or resist it, is a violent, not a
loyal patience; but to submit because it is the will of God to inflict;
to be silent, because the sovereignty of God doth order it, is a ,pa-
tience of a true complexion. The other kind of patience is no ot er
than that of an enemy that will free himself as soon as he can, and
by any way, though never so violent, that offers itseli This sort of
patience is that of a subject acknowledgin the supreme authority
over him, and that he ought to be orderef by the will, and to the
glory of God, more thanoby his own will, and for his own ease ; “ I
was dumb, I opened not my mouth” (Ps. xxxix. 10); not because I
could not help it, but “because thou didst it,” thou who art my
sovereign Lord. The greatness of God claims an awful and invio-
lable respect from his creatures in what way soever he doth dispose
of them; this is due to him; since his kingdom ruleth over all, his
kingdom should be acknowledged by all, and his royal authority
lubmitted to in all that he doth.

