DISCOURSE XIV.
ON GOD'S _PATIENCE. A
lunm, 1. 8.-The Lord is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not at all acquit
the wicked: the Lord hath his way in the w irlwind and in the storm, and the clouds
are the dust of his feet.
THE subject of this pro hecy is God's sentence against Nineveh,
the head and metro olns oi? the Assyrian empire: a city famous for
its strength, and thickness of its walls, and the multitude of its
towers for defence against -an enemy. The forces of this empire did
God use as a scourge against the Israelites, and by their hands ruined
Samaria., the chief city of the ten tribes, and transplanted them as
captives into another country (2 Kings, xvii. 5, 6), about six years
after Hezekiah came to the crown of Judah (2 Kings, xviii. compared
with chap. xvii. 6), in whose time, or, as some think, later, Nahum
uttered this prophecy. The name, Nahum, signiiies Comforter;
though the matter of his pro hecy be dreadful to Nineveh, it was
vomfortable to the people oi? God: for a promise is made, (ver. 7),
“ The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and he
knoweth them that trust in him.” And an encouragement to Judah,
to keep their solemn feasts, (ver. 15: and also in chap.   3), with
a declaration of the misery of Nineveh, and the destruction of it.
Observe,
1. In all the fears of God’s people, God will have a Comforter for
them. Judah might well be de°ected 'with the calamity of their
brethren, not knowing but it miglit be their _own turn shortl after.
They knew not where the ambition of the Assyrian would’ stop;
but God by his prophets calms their fears of their furious neighbor,
by predicting to them the ruin of their feared adversary. .
2. The destruction of the ch\u°ch’s enemies is the comfort of the
church. By that God is glorified in his justice, and the church se-
cured in its worship.
3. The victories of ersecutors secure them not from being the
triumphs of others. The Assyrians that conquered and captived
Israel, were themselves to be conquered and captived by the
Medcs. The whole oppressing empire is threatened with destruction
in the ruin of their chief city ; accordingly it was accomplished, and
the empire extinguished by a greater power. God burns the rod
when it hath done the work he appointed it for; and the wisp of
straw wherewith the vessels are scoured, is flung into the fire, or
upon the dnnghill.
Nahum begins his prophecy majestically, with a description of tho

