\
ON GOD’S PATIENCE. 478
wrath and fury of God. (Ver. 2), “God is jealous, andthe Lord
revengeth; the Lord revengeth, and is furious: the Lord will take
ven ance on his adversaries, and reserveth wrath for his enemies."
Ancgiherefore the w-hole of it is called (ver. 1), “The burden of
Nineveh," as those prophecies are, which are composed of threaten-
ings of judgments, which lie as a mighty weight upon the heads and
backs of sinners.
God ilsjealous-jealous of his glory and worship, and jealous for
his people, and their security. He cannot longlbear the opprewions
of his people, and the boasts of his enemies. e is jealous for him-
self, and is jealous for you of Judah, who retain his worship. He is
not forgetful of those t at remember him, nor of the dan er of those
that are desirous to maintain his honor in the world. Tn this first
expresion, the prcgihet uses the covenant name, God; the covenant
runs, “ I am your od,” or “ the Lord your God ;” mostly God with-
out Lord, never Lord without God: and, therefore, his jealousy here
is meant of the care of his pleople, and the relation that his actions
against his enemies have to is servants. He is a lover of his own,
and a revenger on his enemies.
The Lord revengelli, and is funbus.-He now describes God by a
name of sovereignty and power, when he describes him in his wrath
and fury, and is furious. Heb. Wen '>==, Lord Q/"hot anger. God will
vindicate his own glory, and have his right on his enemies in a way
of punishment, if they will not give it him in a way of obedience.
It is three times rc eated, to show the certainty of the judgment ;=
and the name of “ liord” added to every one, to intimate the power
wherewith the judgment should be executed. It is not a fatherly
correction of children in a way of mercy, but an offended Sovereign s
destruction of his enemies in a way of vengeance. There is an anger
of God with his own peo le, which hath more of mercy than wrath ;
in this his rod is guided) b his bowels. There is a fury` of God
ainst his enemies, where tlliere is sole wrath uithout any tincture
zgmercy ; when his -sword is all edge, without any balsam drops
upon it. Such a fury as David deprecates (Ps. vi. 1): “ 0 Lord, re-
buke me not in thy anger, nor chasten me in thy sore displeasiue,"
with a fury untemperet with grace, and insupportable wrath.
He reserves wra/thfor his enemzles.-He lays it up in his treasury, to
be brought out and expended in a due season. “ W'rath” is supplied
by our translators, and is not in the Hebrew. He reserves, what ?-
that which is too sharp to be expressed, too great to be conceived:
n vengeance it is. And mn anus, He reserves it. He that hath an in-
finite wrath, he reserves it; that hath a strength and power to exe-
cute it.
(Ver. 3.) The Lord is slow to anger, Heb. n~n:< Tm, Q/` broad nostrils.
The anger of God is exfuressed by this word, which signiiies “ nos-
trilsz” as, Job, ix. 13, “ f God will not withdraw his anger,” Heb.
“ his nostrils.” And the anger whereby the wicked are consumed,
is called the “breath of nostrils" (Job, iv. 9); and when he is angry,
smoke and Ere are said to o out of his nostrils §2 Sam.   387; and
in Psalm lxxiv. 1, “ Why doth thy anger smoke ” Heb. “ hy do
' Ribera, in l0¢.

