474 csiumocx ON 'ms urnmurns.
thy nostrils smoke?" So the rage of a horse, when he is provoked'
in battle, is called the glory of his nostrils (Job, xxxix. 20). He
breathes quick fumes, and neighs with fury. And slowness to anger'
is here expressed by the hrase of “ long or wide nostrils z” because
in a vehement anger, the blood boiling about the heart, exhales men’s
spirit, which fume up, and break out in dilated nostrils. But where
t e passages are straighter the s irits have not so nick a vent, and
therefore raise more motions within; or, because the wider the nos-
trils are, the more cool air is drawn in to temper the heat of the
heart, where the angry spirits are gathered; and so the passion is
allayed, and sooner calmed God speaks of himself in Scripture
often after the rate of men; Jeremiah rays (ch. xv. 15) that God
would not take him away in his long-sugenng, Heb. “ in the length
of his nostrils,” fl. e. Benot slow and backward in thy andger gainst
mg' persecutors, as to give them time and opportimityto mtroy me.
T e nostrils, as well as other members of a. uman body, are ascribed
to God He is slow to anger; he hath anger in his natiue, but is
not always in the execution of it.
And great in power.-This may refer to his patience as the cause
of it, or as a bar to the abuse of it. '
1. “He is slow to anger, and great in power,” i. e. his power mod-
erates his anger; he is not so impotent as to be at the command of
his passions, as men are; he can restrain his aqger under just tpro-
vocations to exercise it. His power over himse is the cause o his
slowness to wrath, as Numb. xiv. 17: “ Let the power of my Lord
be great,” saith Moses, when he pleads for the Israelites’ pardon.
Men that are great in the world are quick in passions, and are notso
ready to forgive an injury, or bear with an offender, as one of a
meaner rank. It is a want of a power over a man’s self that makes
him do unbecoming things upon a. provocation. A prince that can
bridle his passion, is a king over himself; as well as over his subjects.
God is slow to anger, because great in power: he hath no less power
over himself than over his creatures: he can sustain great injuries
without an immediate and quick revenge: he hath a power of pa~
tience, as well as a power of justice.
2. Or thus: “He is slow to anger and great in power.” He is
slow to anger, but not for want of power to revenge himself; his
power is as great to punish, as his patience to spare. It seems thus,
that slowness to anger is brought in as an objection against the re-
venge proclaimed. What do you tell us of vengeance, vengeance,
nothing but such repetitions of vengeance ?--as though we were ig-
norant that God is slow to anger. It is true, saith the prophet, I
acknowledge it as much as you, that God is slow to anger; but
withal, great in ower. His anger certainly succeeds his abused
patience; he wili) not always bridle in his wrath, but one time or
other let it march out in fury against his adversaries, The Assyrians,
who had captived the ten tribes, and been victorious a little against
the Jews, might think that the God of Israel had been conquered
by their gods, as well as the plicaple professing him had been sub-
dued by their arms; that God lost all his power; and the Jew!
might argue, from God’s patience to his enemies, against the credit

