l
ON sons mrrsxcs. _ 475
of the prop]het’s denouncing revenge. The plophet answers, to the
terror of t e one, and the comfort of the other, that this indulgence
to his enemies, and not accounting with them for their crimes, pro~
ceeded from the greatness of his patience, and not from any debility
in his wer. As it refers to the Assyrian, it may be rendered thus:
You léiiievites, upon your repentance after Jonah’s thundering of
judgments, are witnesses of the slowness of God to anger, and had
your punishments deferred ; but, falling to your old sins, you shall
End a real punishment, and that he hat as much power to execute
his ancient threatenings, as he had then compassion to recall them;
his patience to you then was not tbr want of power to ruin you, but
was the effect of his goodness towards you. As it refers to the
Jews, it may be thus paraphrased : Do not despise this threatening
against your enemies because of the greatness of their might, the
seeming stability of their empire, and the terror they possess all the
nations with round about them: it may be lon before it comes, but-
assure yourselves the threatening I denounce iall certainly be exe»
cuted ; though he hath patience to endure them a hundred and
thirty~five years (for so lon as it was before Nineveh was destroyed
after this 1; reatening, as Ricra, in loc.” com utes from the years of-
the reign of the kings of Judah), yet he hatih also power to verify
his word, and accomdplish his will : assure yourselves, he will not at
all acquit the wicke .
He will mt acquit the wiblced.-He will not always account the crim-
inal an innocent, as he seems to do by a present s aring of them,
and dealing with them as if they were destitute ofp any provokin
carriage towards him, and he void of any resentment of it. He wig
“not acquit the wicked;” how is this? Who then can be saved?
Is there no place for remission? He will “ not a uit the wicked."
i. e. he will not acquit obstinate sinners. As hemliath atience for
the wicked, so he hath mercy for the penitent. The wiclled are the
subjects of his long-suffering. but not of his acquitting grace; he
doth not presently punish their sins, because he is slow to anger;
but without their repentance he will not blot out their sins, because
he is righteous in judgment: if God should acquit them without re-
pentance for their crimes, he must himself repent of his own law
and righteous sanction of it. “He will not acquit,” i. e. he will not
go back from the thing he hath spoken, and forbear, at long run
the punishment he hath threatened.
The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind.-The way of God signifies
sometimes the law of God, sometimes the providential operations of
God: “Is not my way equal?" (Ezek. xviii. 25). It seems there
to take in both.
And in the storm, and the clouds are the dust M his feet.-The pro-
phet describes here the iight of God with the Assyrians, as i he
rushed upon them with a mighty noise of an army, raising the dust
with the feet of their horses, and motion of their chariots.° Symbol-
ically, it signifies the multitude of the Chaldean and Median forces,
invading, besieging, and stormin the city. It signifies,
1. The rule of providence. The way of God is in every motion
° Page 859, ool. 1. ' Tiriuus, in lac. '

