476 onaanoox oN 'mem arrnmurns.
of the creature; he rules all things, whirlwinds, storms, and clouds;
his way is in all their walks, in the whirlings and blusterings of the
one, in the raising and dissolving the other. He blows up the winds,
and compacts the clouds, to make them serviceable to his designs.
2. The management of wars by God. His way is in the storm:
as he was the Ca tain of the Assyrians against Samaria, so he will
be the Captain of) the Medes against Nineveh: as Israel was not so
much wasted by the Assyrians as b the Lord, who levied and
armed their forces; so Nineveh shall be subverted, rather by God,
than by the arms of the Medea. Their force is described not to be
so much from human power as Divine. God is President in all the
comlnotions of the world, his way is in every whirlwind.
3. The easiness of executing the judgment. He is of so great
power that he can excite tem ests in the air, and overthrow them
with the clouds, which are the dust of his feet: he can blind his
enemies, and avenge himself on them: he is Lord of clouds, and
can fill their womb with hail, lightnings, and thunders, to burst out
upon those he kindles his anger against: he is of so great force, that
he needs not use the strength of his arm, but the dust of his feet, to
effect his destroying purpose. \
. 4. The suddenness of the judgment. Whirlwinds come suddenly,
without any harbingers to 've notice of their approach: clouds are
swift in their motion; “ Wglo are those that fly as a cloud?" (Isa. lx.
81%, i. e. with a mighty nimbleness. What God doth, he shall do on
t e sudden, come upon them betbre they are aware, be too quick for
them in his motion to overrun and overreach them. The winds are
described with win in regard of the quickness of their motion.
5. The terror ofgsiudgments. “The Lord hath his way in the
wh.irlwind,” i. e. in great displeasure. The anger of the Lord is
often compared to a storm; he shall bring clouds of judgments upon
them, many and thick, as terrible as when a day is turne into night,
by the musterin of the darkest clouds that mterpose between the
sun and the eartli. “ Clouds and darkness are round about him, and
a fire goes before him,” when he “burns up\his enemies” (Ps. xcvii.
2, 3). The judgments shall have terror wit out mercy, as clouds ob-
sc1u'e the light, and are dark masks before the face and glory of the
sun, and cut off its refreshing beams from the earth. Clouds note
multitude and obscurity; God could crush them without a whirl-
wind, beat them to powder with one touch, but he will bring his
judgments in the most surprisiplg and amazing manner to Hesh and
blood, so that all their glory sh be changed into nothing but ter-
ror, by the noise of the be owing winds, and the clouds, like ink,
blacking the heavens.
6. The confusion of the oifenders upon God’s proceeding. A
whirlwind is not only a boisterous wind, that hurls and rolls every-
thing out of its place, but, by its circular motion, by its winding to
all ints of the compass, it confounds things, and jumbles them to-
gethgr. It keeps not one point, but, by a circumgyration, toucheth
upon all. Clouds, like dust, shall be blown in their face, and gum
up their eyes: the shall be in a post1u'e of confusion, not know
what counsels to nie, what motions to resolve upon. Let them look

