ON sorrs PATIENCE. 477
to every point of heaven and earth, they shall meet with a whirl-
wind to confound them, and cloudy dust to blind them.
7. The irresistibleness of the judgment. Winds have more than
a giant-like force, a. torrent of compacted air, that, with an invincible
wifulness, bears all before it, displaceth the hrmest trees, and levels
the tallest towers, and pulls up bodies from their natural place.
Clouds also are over our hea s, and above our reach; when God
places them upon his people for defence they are an invincible se-
curity (Isa. iv. 5); and when he moves them, as his chariot, against
a people, they end in an irresistible destruction. Thus the ruin of
the wicked is described (Prov. x. 25): “As the whirlwind passes,
so is the wicked no more :" it blows them down, sweeps them away,
they irrecoverably fall before the force of it. What heart can en~
dure, and what hands can be strong, in the days wherein God doth
deal with them! (Ezek. xxii. 14). Thus is t e judgment against
Nineveh described: God hath his way in the whirlwind, to thunder
down their strongest walls, which were so thick that chariots could
march abreast upon them; and batter down their mighty towers,
which that city had in multitudes upon their walls.
They are the first words I intend to insist u on, to treat of the
Patience of God described in those words, “ The Lord is slow to
an er.”
§)octrine. Slowness to anger, or admirable patience, is the property
of the Divine nature. As patience signihes suffering, so it is not in
God. The Divine nature is impassible, incapable of any impair, it
cannot be touched by the violences of men, nor the essential glory
of it be diminished by the inj1u'ies of men ; but as it signifies a will-
ingness to defer, and an unwillingness to pour forth his wrath upon
sinful creatures, he moderates his provoked justice, and forbears to
revenge the injuries he daily meets with in the world. He suffers
no grief by men’s wronging him, but he restrains his arm from pun-
ishing them according to their merits; and thus there is patience in
every cross a man meets with in the world, because, though it be a
punishment, it is less than is merited by the unrighteous rebel, and
ess than may be inflicted biy a righteous and powerfiil God. This
patience is seen in his provi ential works in the world: “He suffered
the nations to walk in their own way,” and the witness of his provi-
dence to them was his “ giving them rain and fruitful seasons, filling
their heart with food and gladness" (Acts, xvi. 17). The heathens
took notice of it, and signified it by feigning their god Saturn, to be
bound a whole year in a soft cord, a cord of Wool, and expressed it
by this proverb: “The mills of the gods grind slowly ;” i. e. God
doth not use men with that severity that they deserve; the mills
being usually turned by criminals condemned to that works* This,
in Scripture, is frequently expressed by a slowness to anger (Ps. ciii.
81), sometimes by long-suffering, whici is a patience with duration
( s. cxlv. 8 ; Joel, ii. 13). He is slow to anger, he takes not the first
occasions of a provocation; he is long-suffering (Rom. ix. 22), and
§Ps. lxxxvi. 15) he forbears plunishment upon many occasions oil
him. It is long before e consents to give iire to his wrath,
` I iuwaigi us vt c. 14. ,

