178 cnsnrrocx on 'rn Arrnmnrss.
and shoot out his thunderbolts. Sin hath aloud cry, but God seen!
to stop his ears, not to hear the clamor it raises and the charge it
presents. He keeps his sword a long time in the sheath; one calls
the patience of Go the sheath of his sword, upon those words (Ezek.
xxi. 3); “ I will draw forth my sword out of his sheath.” This is one
remar able letter in the name of God; he himself proclaims it (Exod.
xxxiv. 6): “The Lord, the Lord God, merciful, gracious, and long-
suffering.” And Moses pleads it in the behalf of the le (Numb.
xiv. 18), where he placeth it in the first rank; the £225 is “long~
suffering and of great mercy :” it is the first spark of mercy, and ush-
ers it to its exercises in the world.° In the Lord’s proclamation, it is
put in the middle link, mercy and truth together; mercy could have
no room to act if patience did not prepare the way ; and his truth
and goodness, in his romise of the Redeemer, would not have been
manifest to the yvorldpif he had shot his arrows as soon as men com-
mitted their sins, and deserved his punishment. This perfection is
expressed by other phrases, as “keeping silence” (Ps. l. 21): “These
things hast thou done, and I ke t silence,” ~nu:» wx-im mos vhs; it
signifies to behave one’s self as a cl)eaf or dumb man. I did not Hy
in thy face, as some do, with a great noise uppn a light provoca-
tion, as if their life, honor, estates, were at t e stake; I did not
presently call thee to the bar, and pronounce judicial sentence upon
thee according to the law, but demeaned myself as if I had been
ignorant of thy crimes, and had not been invested with the power
of judging thee for them. Uhald. “I waited for thy conversion."
God’s patience is the silence of his justice, and the first whisper of
his mercy. It is also expressed by not laying folly to men (J ob, xxiv.
12); men groan under the oppressions of others, yet God lays not
folly to them, i. e. to the op ressors; God suffers them to go on with
impunity. He doth not dgliver his people because he would try
them, and takes not revenge upon the unrighteous, because in pa~
tience he doth bear with them: patience is the life of his providence
in this world. He chargeth not men with their crimes here, but re-
serves them, upon impenitenc , for another trial. This attribute is
so great a one, that it is si ally called by the name of “Perfection”
(Matt. v. 45, 48). He ha? been s king of Divine gwoodnem, and
patience to evil men, and he concllides, “ Be you perfect,” &c., im-
plying it to be an amazing perfection of the Divine nature, and wor~
thy of imitation.
In the Iprosecution of this, I. Let us consider the nature of this pa-
tience. I. Wherein it is manifested. III. Why God doth exercise
so much patience. IV. The Use.
I. The nature of this patience.
1. It is (part of the Divine goodness and mercy, yet di§`ers from
both. Go being the greatest goodness, hath the greatest mildnw.
Mildness is always the companion of true goodness, and the greater
the goodness the greater the mildness. Who so holy as Christ, and
who so meek? God’s slowness to anger is a branch or slip from his
mercy (Ps. cxlv. 8): “The Lord is fiillof compassion, slow to anger”
' Aijgéfl ;v1;:I:Z’;£Ej,pig£ill1le;g;r;Zll;I'}:i?:ef(i;.Zi, KUMOV JE rovrferrz TW Uilnyv T08 (gap Jil

