\
. ON aorrs Parmscs. 479
It differs from mercy in the formal consideration of the object; mercy
respects the creature as miserable, patience respects the creature as
criminal; mercy pities him in his misery, and patience bears with
the sin which engendered that misery, and is giving birth to more.
Again, mercy is one end of patience; his long-suifering is partly to
glorify his grace: soit was in Paul (1 Tim. i. 16). As slowness to
anger springs from goodness, so it makes mere the butt and mark
of its operations (Isa. xxx. 18): “He waits that he ma be gracious.”
Goodness sets God upon the exercise of patience, andy patience sets
many a sinner on running into the arms of mercy. That mercy
which makes God ready to embrace returning sinners, makes him
willing to bear with them in their sins, and wait their return. It
differs also from goodness, in regard of the object. The object of
goodness is every creature, angels, men, all inferior creatures, to the
cwest worm that crawls upon the ground. The object of patience
is, primarily, man, and secondarily, t ose creatures that respect rnen’s
support, co veniency, and delight; but they are not the objects of
patience, as considered in themselves, but in relation to man, for
whose use they were created; and therefore God’s patience tu them
is prcgnerly his platience with man. The lower creatures do not in-
jure od, and t erefore are not the objects -of his patience, but as
they are forfeited by man, and man deserves to be deprived of them;
as man in this regard falls under the patience of God, so do those
creatures which are designed for man’s good. That patience which
spares man, spares other creatures for him, v.-iwich were all forfeited
by man’s sin, as well as his own life, and are rather the testimonies-
of God’s patience, than the proper objects of it. The object of God’s
goodness, then, is the whole creation; not a devil in hell, but as a
creature, is a mark of his goodness, but not of his patience. There
is a kind of sparing exercised to the devils, in deferring their com-
pkte punishment, and hitherto keeping] off the day wherein their
al sentence is to be pronounced; yet t e Scripture never mentions
this b the name of slowness to anger, or long-suffering. It can not
more lie called patience, than a prinee’s keeping a malefactor in chains,
and not pronouncing a condemning sentence, or not executing a sen-
tence already pronounced, can be called a patience with him, when
it is not out of kindness to the oiiender, but for some reasons of state.
God’s sparing the devils from their total punishment-which they
have not yet, but are “reserved in chains, under darkness for it’
(Jude, 6)-is not in order to repentance, or attended with any invita-
tions from God, or hopes in them; and, therefore, cannot come un-
der the same title as God’s sparing man : where there is no proposal
of mercy, there is no exercise of patience. The fallen angels had no
mercy reserved for them, nor any sacrifices prepared for them; God
“spared not the angels” (2 Pet. ii. 45, “ but delivered them into chains
of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment,” i. e. he had no patience
for them; for patience is properly a temporary sparing a person,
with a waiting of his rclenting, and a change of is injurious de»
meanor. The object of goodness is more extensive than that of pa-
tience: nor do they both consider the object under the same relation.
Goodness respects things in a capacity, or in a state of creation, and

