480 cuaasocx ON 'run xrrnmvrss.
brings them forth into creation, and nurseth and supports them as
creatures. Patience considers them already created, and fallen short
of the duty ot' creatures; it considers them as sinners, or in relation
to sinners. Had not sin entered, patience had never been exercised;
but goodness had been exercised, had the creature stood irm in its
created state without any transgression ; nay, creation could not
have been without gpodness, because it was goodnem to create; but
pgtience had never een known without an object, which could not
ve been without an injury. Where there is no wrong, no suifer-
ing, nor like to be any, patience hath no prospect of any operation.
So, then, goodness respects persons as creatures, patience as trans-
gressors; mercy eyes men as miserable and obnoxious to punish-
ment; patience considers men as sinful, and provoking to punish-
ment.
2. Since it is a part of goodness and mercy, it is not an insensible
patience. What is the fruit of P1118 goodness cannot be From a weak»
ness of resentment; he is f* slow to angprf’ the prophet doth not
saty, he is incapable of anger, or cannot 'seem what is a real object
o anger; it implies, that he doth consider every provocation, but he
is not hasty to discharge his arrows upon the offenders; he secs all,
while he bears with them ; his omniscience excludes any ignorance;
he cannot but see eveiiy wrong; every aggravation in that wrong,
every step and motion rom the beginning to the completing it; for
he knows all our thoughts; he sees the sin and the sinner at the
same time; the sin with an eye of abhorrency, and the sinner with
an eye of pity. His cve is upon their iniquities, and his hatred edged
against them; while he stands with arms open, waiting a penitent
return. When he publisheth his patience in his keeping silence, he
ublisheth also his resolution, to set sin in order before their eyes
Ps. l. 21|: “I will reprove thee, and set them in order before thy
eyes.” Think me not such a piece of phlegm, and so dull as not to
resent your insolences; you shall see, in my final char e, when I
come to judge, that not a wry look escaped my knowl e, that I
had an eye to hehold, and a heart to loat e eveéy one of your trans-
, »
essions. The church was ready to think that od s slowness to de-
Eifer her, and his bearing with her oppressors, was not Hom any pa~
tience in his nature, but a drowsy carelessness, a senseless lethargy
(Ps. xliv. 23): “Awake, why seepest thou, O Lord?" We must
conclude him an inapprehcnsive God, before we can conclude him
an insensible God. As his dela ing his promise is not slackness to
his peo .vle (2 Pet. iii. 9), so his diizferring of punishment is not from
a stupidity under the atfronts offered him.
8. Since it is a part of his mercy and goodness. it is not a con-
strained or faint-hearted patience. It is not a slowness to anger,
arising from a despondcncy of his own giower to revenge. He hath
as much powerto punish as he hath to orbear punishment. He that
created a world in six days, and that by a word, wants not a strength
to crush all mankind in one minute; and with as much ease as a
word imports, can give satisfaction to his justice in the blood of the
offender. Patience in man is many times interpreted, and truly too,
s cowardice, a feebleness of spirit, and a want of strength. But it is

