. ON Goirs rumucs. 481
‘not from the shortness of the Divine arm, that he cannot reach ug
nor from the feebleness of his hand, that he cannot strike us. It is
not because he cannot level us with the dust, dash us in pieces like
a potter’s vessel, or consume us as a moth. He can make the might-
imt to fall before him, and la the strongest at his feet the Erst mo-
ment of their crime. He that did not want a powerful word to create
a world, cannot want a powerful word to dissolve the whole frame
of it, and raze it out of being. It is not, therefore, out of a distrust
of his own power, that he hath supported a'sinful world for so many
ages, and atiently borne the blasphemies of some, the neglects of
others, and) the ingratitude of all, without iniiicting that severe jus
tice which righteously he might have done; he wants no thunder to
crush the whole generation of men, nor waters to drown them, nor
earth to swallow them up. How easy is it for him to sin le out this
or that particular person to be the object of his wrath, and not of his
patience! What e hath done to one, he may to another; any sig-
nal judgment he hath sent upon one, is an evidence that he wants
not power to inflict it upon al. Could he not make the motes in
the air to choke us at every breath, rain thunderbolts instead of
drops of water, fill the clouds with a consuming lightning, take of
the reverence and fear of man, which he hath imprinted upon the
creature, spirit our domestic beasts to be our executioners, unloose
the tiles from the house-top to brain us, or make the fall of a house
to crush us? It is but taking out the pins, and giving a blast, and
the work is done. And doth he want a power to do any of those
things? It is not then a faint-hearted, or feeble patience, that he
exerciseth towards man.
4. Since it is not for want of power over the creature, it is from a
fulness of power over himself This is in the text, “The Lord is
slow to anger, and great in ower ;” it is a part of his dominion over
himself; whereby he can mod)erate, and rule 's own affections accord-
ing to the holiness of his .own will. As it is the effect of his wer,
so it is an argument of his wer; the eatness of the effect cleomon-
strates the fulness and su£i:)iency of ge cause. The more feeble
any man is in reason the less command he hath over his assions,
and he is the more heady to revenge. Reven e is a sign otp a child-
ish mind; the stronger any man is in reason, time more command he
hath over himself “He that is slow to anger is better than the
mighty; and he that rules his own spirit, than he that takes a cit "
g’rov. xvi. 82?; he that can restrain his anger, is stronger than the
aesars and A exanders of the world, that have filled the earth with
slain carcasses and ruined cities. By the same reason, God’s slowness
to anger is a greater argument of his power than the creating a world,
or the power of dissolving it by a word; in this he hath a dominion
over creatures, in the other over himself; this is the reason he will
not return to destroy; because “I am God, and not man” (Hos. xi.
9); I am not so weak and impotent as man, that cannot restrain his
anger. This is a strength possessed only by a God, wherein a crea-
ture is no more able to arallel him, than in any other; so that he
may be said to be the ford of himself; as it is in the verse before
the text, that he is the Lord of anger, in the Hebrew, instead of
VUL. |l»*31

