482' cnsnnocx ON mn Arrnmurm.
“ furious,” as we translate it; so he is the Lord of patience. The end
why God is patient, is to show his power. “What if God, willin
to show his wrath, and to make his powerknown, endured  
much long'-suiferinglthe vessels of wrath fitted to destruction ?” (Rom.
ix. 22). o show is wrath upon sinners, and his power over him-
self in bearing such indignities, and forbearing p\m1shment so long,
when men were vessels of wrath fitted for destruction, of whom there
was no hopes of amendment. Had he immediately broken in pieces
those vessels, his power had not so eminently ap cared as it hath
done, in tolerating them so lon , that had provolced him to take
them oif so often; there is indeed the power of his anger, and there
is the power of his patience; and his power is more seen in his
patience than in his wrath: it is no wonder that He that is above all,-
is able to crush all; but it is a wonder, that he that is provoked by
all, doth not, upxon the first provocation, rid his hands of all. This
is the reason w y he did bear such a weight of provocations Hom
vessels of wrath, repared for ruin, that he might yrwylo-u 16 Hw-"bv
wifvv, show what ll)e was able to do, the lordship and royalty he had
over himself The power of God is more manifest in his atience
to a multitude of sinners, than it would be in creating millions of
wpirlds out of nothing; this was the dvmibv aéroi, a power over him-
se .
5. This patience bein a branch of mercy, the exercise of it is
founded in the death of   Without the consideration of this,
we can give no account why Divine patience should extend itself to
us, and not to the fallen angels. The threatening extends itself to
us as well as to the fallen angels; the threatening must necemarily
have sunk man, as well as those glorious creatures, had not Christ
stepped in to our relief Had not Christ interposed to satisfy the
justice of God, man upon his sin had been actually bound over to
punishment, as well as the fallen angels were u n theirs, and been
ettered in chains as strong as those spirits feel? The reason why
man was not hurled into the same de lorable condition u(pon his sin,
as the were, is Christ’s promise of taliing our nature, an not theirs.
Had god designed Christ’s taking their nature, the same patience
had been exercised towards them, and the same offers wou d have
been made to them, as are made to us. In regard to these &~ui1s of
this patience, Christ is said to bu the wickedest apostates from him:
“Denying the Lord that bouglit them” (1 Pet.   1). Such were
bought by him, as “bring upon themselves just destruction, and
whose damnation slumbers not’ (ver. 3); he purchased the continu-
ance of their lives, and the stay of their execution, that offers of
Qace might be made to them. This patience must be either :Son
t e account of the law, or the gospel; for there are no other es,
whereby God governs the world. A fruit of the' law it was not;
that spake nothing but curses after disobedience; not a letter of
mercy was writ upon that, and therefore nothing of patience; death
and wrath were denounced; no slowness to anger intimated. It
must be therefore upon account of the ospel, and a fruit of the cov-
enant of grace, whereof Christ was Megator. Besides this perfection
' ‘ Teotnrd. de Natur. et Grat. These. 119.

