ON oon’s rlrrmnca. 483
being1God's “ waiting that he might be gracious”  xxx. 18), that
whic made way for God’s grace made way for his waiting to mani-
fest it. God discovered not his grace, but in Christ; and therefore
discovered not his patience but in Christ; it is in him he met with
the satisfaction of his justice, that he might have a ground for the
manifestation of his patience. And the sacrifices of the law, wherein
the life of a beast was acce ted for the sin of man, discovered the
und of his forbearance otp them to be the expectation of the great
ggdrifice, whereby sin was to be completely exipiated (Gen. viii. 21),
The publication of his patience to the end of t e world is presently
after the sweet savor he found in Noah’s sacrifice. The promised
and desi ed comin of Christ, was the cause of that atience God
exercise?) before in 'ie world; and his gathering the ellect together,
is the reason of his patience since his death. ,
6. The naturalness of his veracity and holiness, and the stnctness
of his justice, are no bars to the exercise of his patience.
(1.) His veracity. In those threatenings where the punishment is
expre%, but not the time of inflicting it (prefixed and determined
in the threatenin , his veracity suffers no amage by the delaying
execution; so it ie once done, though a long time after, the credit
of his truth stands unshaken: as when God promises a thing with-
out fixing the the time, he is at liberty to pitch upon what time he
leases for the performance of it, without staining is faithfulness to
his word, by not giving the thing promised presently. Why should
the deferring of justice upon an offender be any more against his
veracity than his dela ` g an answer to the petitions of a suppliant?
But the difference willrlile in the threatening. “In the day t ou eat-
est thereof, thou shalt die the death” (Gen. ii. 17). The time was
there settled; “in that day thou shalt die;” some refer “day” to
eating, not to dying; and render the sentence thus: I do not pro-
hibit thee the eating this fruit for a day or two, but continually. In
whatsoever clay thou eatest thereof, thou shalt die; but not under-
standing his dying that very day he should eat of it; referring
“ day” to the extensiveness of the prohibition, as to time. Butto
leave this as uncertain, it may he answered, that as in some threat-
enings a condition is implied, though not expressed, as in that '-
tive denouncing of the destruction of Ninevah: “Yet forty dx,
and Ninevah shall be destroyed” (Jonah, iii. 4), the condition is im~
plied; unless they humble themselves, and repent; for upon their
repentance, the sentence was deferred. So here, “ in the day thou
eatest thereof, thou shalt die the death," or certainly die, unless there
be a way found for the expiation of thy crime, an the righting my
honor. This condition, in regard of the event, may as well be as-
serted to be implied in this threatening, as that of repentance was in
the other; or rather, “ thou shalt die,” thou shalt die spiritually, thou
shalt lose that image of mine in thy nature, that 1'igJlifteousness which
is as much the life of thy soul as thy soul is the ` e of thy bod ;
that rigliteousncss whereby thou art enabled 'fo live to me and di
own happiness. \Vhat the soul is to the body, a quickening souf
that the image of God is to the soul, a quickening image. Or “thou
shalt die the leath,” or certainly die; thou shalt be liable to death.

