484 cnnmocx on 'ma snmmurns.
And so it is to be understood, not of an actual death of the body,
but the merit of death, and the necessity of death; thou wilt beo
noxious to death, which will be avoided, if thou dost forbearto eat
of the forbidden fruit; thou shalt be a guilty person, and so lmder
a sentence of death, that I ma , when I please, inflict it on thee.:
Death did come upon Adam tliat day, because his nature was vitiat-
ed; he was then also under an expectation of death, he was obnox-
ious to it, though that da it was not poured out upon him in the
full bitterness and gall ofy it: as when the apostle saith, “The body
is dead because of sin” (Rom. viii. 10), he speaks to the living, and
yet tells them the body was dead because of sin; he means no more
than that it was under asentence, and so a necessity of dying, though
not actually dead; so thou shalt be under the sentence of death that
day, as certainly as if that day thou shouldst sink into the dust: and
as bv his atience towards man, not sending forth death upon him
in all the litter ingredients of it, his justice afterwards was more
eminent u on man s surety, than it would have been if it had been
then emplldyed in all its severe operations u}pon man. So was his
veracity eminent also in making good this t reatening, in inflicting
the punishment included in it upon our nature assumed by amighty
Person, and upon that Person in our nature, who was infinitely
higher than our nature.
(2.) His justice and righteousnes: are not prejudiced by his pa-
tience. There is a hatred of the sin in his holiness, and a sen-
tence past against the sin in his justice, though the execution of
that sentence be suspended, and the rson reprieved by patience,
which is implied (Eccles. viii. 11): ‘glheecause sentence against an
evil work is not executed speedily; therefore, the heart of the sons
of men is fully set in them to do evil ;” sentenceis past, butaspeedy
execution is sto ped. Some of the heathens, who would not imagine
God imjust, and) yet, seeing the villanies and oppressions of men in
the world remain un unished, and frequently beholding prosperous
wickedness, to free him from the charge of injustice, enied his
providence and actual government of the world; for if he did
take notice of human affairs, and concern himself in what was done
upon the earth, they could not think an Infinite Goodness and J us-
tice cou1d'be so slow to punish oppnessors, and relieve the misera-
ble, and leave the world in that disorder under the injustice of men:
theytgudged such a (patience as was exercised by him, if he did gov
ern e world, was rawn out beyond the line of fit and just. Is it
not a presumption in men to prescribe a rule of righteousness and
conveniency to their Creator? It might be demanded of such, whe-
ther they never injured any in their lives; and when certainly they
have one way or another, would they not think itavery unworthy,
if not unjust, thing, that a person so injured by them should take a
speedy and severe revenge on them ?-and if every man should do
t e l' e, would there not be a speedy despatch made of mankind?
Would not the world be a shambles, and men rush forwards to one
another’s destructions, for the wrongs they have mutually received?
If it be accounted a virtue in man, and no unrighteousness, not pn-
~ I Perer, in loc. -

