ON Gorrs rarrnncn. 485
uintly to be all on Hre against an offence; by what right should any
question the inconsistency of God’s patience with his justice? Do
we raise the lenity of parents to children, and shall we disparage
the long-sulfering of God to men? We do not censure the right-
eousness of physicians and chirurgeons, because they cut not off a
corrupt member this day as well as to-morrow? And is it just to
asperse God, because he doth defer his vengeance which man as-
sumes to himself a right to do? We never account him a bad gov-
ernor that defers the trial, and consequently the condemnation and
execution of a notorious offender for important reasons, and bene-
ficial to the public, either to make the nature of his crime more evi-
dent, or to ‘rind out the rest of his complices by his discovery. A
governor, indeed, were unjust, if he commanded that which were
unrighteous, and forbade that which were worthy and commenda-
ble; but if he delays the execution of a convict offender for weighty
reasons, either for the benefit of the state whereof he is the ruler, or
for some advantage to the offender himself, to make him have a
sense of, and a regret for his offence, we account him not unjust for
this. God doth not by his patience dispense with the holiness of
his law, nor cut off anything from its due authority. If men do
strengthen themselves by his long-suifering against his law, it is
their fault, not an unrighteousness in him; he will take a time to
vindicate the righteousness of his own commands, if men will
wholly neglect the time of his patience, in forbearing to pay a duti-
ful observance to his preceplt. If justice be natural to him, and he
cannot but unish sin, yet e is not necessitated to consume sinners,
as the fire dlbth stubble put into it, which hath no command over its
own qualities to restrain them from acting; but God is a free agent,
and may choose his own time for the distribution of that punish-
ment his nature leads him to. Though he be naturally just, yet it
is not so natural to him, as to deprive him of a dominion over his
own acts, and a freedom in the exerting them what time he judgeth
most convenient in his wisdom, God is necessarily holy, and is ne-
cessarily angry with sin; his nature can never li e it, and cannot
but be displeased with it; yet he hath a liberty to restrain the effects
of this anger for a time, without disgracing his holiness, or being in-
terpreted to act unrighteously; as well as a prince or state may sus-
pend the execution of a law, which they will never break, only for
a time and for a public benefit. If God should presentl execute
his justice, this perfection of patience, which is a part ofy his good-
ness, would never have an opportunity of discovery; part of his
glory, for which he created the world, would lie in obscurity from
the knowledge of his creatine; his justice would be signal in the
destruction of sinners, but this stream of his goodness would be
stopped up from any motion. One perfection must not cloud an-
other; God hath his seasons to discover all, one after another: “ The
times and seasons are in his own power” (Acts, i. 7): the seasons of
manifesting his own perfections as well as other things; succession
00 them, in their distinct appearance, makes no invasion upon the
rights of any. If justice should complain of an injury from pa.
tience, because it is delayed, patience hath more reason to complain

