486 cmlznocx ON 'ms arramurss.
of an injury from justice, that by such a lea it would be wholly
obscure and inactive: for this perfection hath the shortest time to
act its plart of any, it hath no stage but this world to move in:
mercy ath a heaven, and justice a hell, to display itselfto eternity,
but long-suffering hath only a short~lived earth for the com ass of
its operation. Again, justice is so far from bein wrongedp b pa-
tience, that it rather is made more illustrious, am? hath the flullcr
scope to exercise itself; it is the more righted for being deferred, and
wil have stronger grounds than before for its activity; the equity
of it will be more apparent to every reason, the objections more
fully answered against it, when the way of dealing with sinners by
patience hath been slighted. When this dam of long-suffering is re-
moved, `the- Hoods of hery 'ustice will rush down with more force
and violence; justice will be fully recompensed for the delay, when,
after patience is abused, it can spread itself over the oifender with a
more unquestionable authority; it will have more arguments to hit
the sinner in the teeth with, and silence him; there will be a sharper
edge for every stroke; the sinner must not only pay for the score
of his former sins, but the score of abused patience, so that justice
hath no reason to commence a suit against God’s slowness to anger:
what it shall want by the fulness of mercy u on the truly penitent,
it will gain by the contempt of patience on the impenitent abusers.
When men, by such a carriage, are ripened for the stroke ofiiustice,
justice may strike without any regret in itself; or p`ull-bac from
mercy; the contempt of long-suifering will silence t e pleas of the
one, and s irit the severity of the other. To conclude: since God
hath gloritlled his justice on Christ, as a surety for sinners, his pa»
tience is so far from interfering with the rights of his justice, that it
promotes it; it is dispensed to this end, that God migiht pardon with
onor, both upon the score of purchased mercy an contented jus-
tice; that by a penitent sinner’s return his mercy might be acknowl-
ed ed free, and the satisfaction of his justice by Christ be gloriiied
inielieving: for he is long-suffering from an unwillingness “ that
any should perish, but that all should come to repentance” (2 Pet.
iii. gg; i. e. all to whom the promise is made, for to such the apostle
spe s, and calls it “ long-suifering to us-ward ;” and repentance be~
ing an acknowledgment of the dcmerit of sin, and a breaking of
unrighteousness, gives a particular glory to the freeness of mercy,
and the equity of justice. -
IL The second thing, How this patience or slown  to anger is
manifested.
1. To our first parents. His slowness to an er was evidenced in
not directing his artillery against them, when they first attempted to
rebel. He might have struck them dead when they began to bite at
the temptation, and were inclinable to a surrender; for it was a de~
gree of sinning, and a breach of loyalty as well, though not so much
as the consummatinig act. God might have given way to the Hoods
of his wrath at the ist spring of 1nan’s aspiring thou hts, when the
monstrous motion of being as God began to be curdlelgl in his heart;
but he took no notice of any of their emb o sins till they came to a
ripeness, and started out of the womb of their minds into the open

