ON sons rrrmscs. 487
lir: and aher he had brought his sin to perfection, God did not
presently send that death upon him, which he had merited, but con-
tinued hjs life to the space of 930 years (Gen. v. 5). The sun and
stars were not arrested from doing their oHice for him. Creatures
were continued for his use, the earth did not swallow him up, nor a
thunderbolt from heaven raze out the memory of him. Though he
had deserved to be treated with such a severity for his ungrateful
demeanor to his Creator and Benefactor, and afecting an equality
with him, yet God continued him with a suilicicncy for his content,
after he turned rebel, though not with such a liberality as when he
remained a loyal subject; and though he foresaw that he would not
make an end of sinnrn , but with an end of livin , he used him not
in the same manner asgie had used the devils. fi added days and
years to him, after he had deservpd death, and hath for this 5,000
years continued the propagation o mankind, and ,derived from his
oins an innumerab e posterity, and hath crowned multitudes of
them with hoary heads. He might have extinguished human race
at the Hrst; but since he hath preserved it till this day, it must be
interpreted nothing else but the effect of an admirable patience.
2. His slowness to anger is manifest to the Gentiles. What they
were, we need no other witness than the a ostle Paul, who°sums up
many of their crimes (Rom. i. 29-82). Ii; doth preface the cata~
logue with a comprehensive expression, “Being fi led with all un-
righteousness ;” and concludes it with a dreadful aggravation, “They
not only do the same, but have leasure in them that do them.” They
were so soaked and naturalized in wickedness, that they had no de-
light, and found nosweetness in anything else but what was in itself
abominable; all of them were plunged in idolatry and superstition;
none of them but either set up their great men, or creatures, benei-
cial to the world, and some the damned spirits in his stead, and paid
an adoration to insensible creatures or devils, which was due to (rod.
Some were so depraved in their lives and actions, that it seemed to
be the interest of the rest of the world., that they should have been
extinguished for the instruction of their contemporaries and pos-
terity. The best of them had turned all religion into a fable, coined
a world of rites, some unnatural in themselves, and most of them un-
becoming a rational creature to offer, and a Deity to accept: yet he
did not presently arm himself against them with fire and sword, nor
stopped the course of their generations, nor tear out all those relics
of natural light which were left in their minds. He did not do what
he might have done, but he winked at the “ times of that ignorance”
(Acts, xvii. 30), their ignorant idolatr ; for that it refers to (ver.
29) : “They thought the Godhead was like to gold or silver, or stone
graven by art, an men’s device; Iinfeuléw, overlooking them. He
emeane himself so, as if he did not take notice of them. He
winked as if he did not see them, and would not deal so severely
with them: the eye of his justice seemed to wink, in not calling them
to an account for their sin.
3. His slowness to anger is manifest to the Israelites. You know
how often they are called a “stiff-necked people ;” they are said to
do evil “ from their youth ;" i. e. from the time wherein they were

