\
488 CHARNOCK ON 'rim yrrnmurns.
erected a nation and commonwealth; and that “ the city had been
a provocation of his anger, and of his fury, from the day that they
built it, even to this day ;” i. c. the day of Jeremiah’s prophecy,
“that he should remove it from before his face” (Jer. xxxu. 31):
from the days of Solomon, say some, which is too much a curtailing
of the t/ext, as though their provocations had taken date no higher
than from the time of Solomon’s rearing the temple, and beautifying
the city, whereby it seemed to be a new building. They baigian more
early; they scarce discontinued their revolting &°om God; ey were
a. “ grief to him forty years together in the wilderness” (Ps. xcv. 10),
“yet he suffered their manners” (Acts,   18). He bore with their
i1 -behaviour and sauciness towards him; and no sooner was J oshua’s
head laid, and the elders, that were their conductors, gathered to
their fathers, but the next generation forsook God, and srnutwed
themselves with the idolatry of the nations (Judges, ii. 7, 10, ll):
and when he punished them by pros ering the arms of their enemies
against them, they were no sooner delivered upon their c and hu-
miliation, but they began a new scene of idolatry; and iiho Uh he
brought upon them the power of the Bab lonian empire, ahid laid
chains upon them to bringlthem to their right mind. And at seventy
years' end he struck off t eir chains, by altering the whole posture
of affairs in that part of the world for their sakes: overturning one
empire, and settlin another for their restoration to their ancient city.
And though they did not after disown him for their God, and set up
“ Baal in his throne,” et they multiplied foolish traditions, whereb
they impaired the autiiority of the law; yet he sustained them with
a wonderful patience, and preferred them before all other people in
the first offers of the gospel; and after thev had outraged not only
his servants, the prophets, but his Son, the Redeemer, yet he did not
forsake them, but employed his apostles to solicit them, and publish
among them the doctrine of salvation: so that his treating this peo-
ple might well be called “ much long-suffering,” it bein above 1500
years, wherein he bore with them, or mildly punished giem, far less
than their deserts; their coming out of Egypt being about the year
of the world 2450, and their final destruction as a commonwealth,
not till about forty years after the death of Christ; and all this while
his patience did sometimes wholly restrain his justice, and sometimes
let it fall upon them in some few drops, but made no total devasta-
tion of their country, nor wrote his revenge in extraordinary bloody
characters, till the Roman conquest, wherein he put a period to
them both as a church and state. In particular this patience is
manifest,
lst. In his giving warnings of judgments, before he orders them
to o forth. He doth not unish In a passion, and hastily; he speaks
beére he strikes, and speaks that he may not strike. Wrath is pub-
lished before it is executed, and that a long time; an hundred and
twenty years’ advertisement was given toya debauched world before
the heavens were o ned, to spout down a deluge upon them. He
will not be accusedpbf coming unawares upon a people ; he inflicts
nothing but what he foretold either imme iately to t ie people that
provoke him, or anciently to them that have been their forerunners

