on corrs rurmsca. ~ 489
in the same provocation (Hos. vii. 12), “I will chastise them, as their
congregation hath heard.” Many of the leaves of the Old Testament
are full of those presages and warnings of approaching judgment.
These make u a great part of the volume of it in various editions,
according to the state of the several provoking times. \Varnings are
given to those people that are most abominable in his sight (Zeph. ii.
1, 2); “Gather yourselves together, yea, gather to ether, O nation
not desired,”-it is a Metbsih, O nation abhorred,-“iefore the decree
bring forth.” He sends his heralds before he sends his armies; he
summons them by the voice of his'pro hets, before he confounds
them by the voice of his thunders. Vshen a parleiy is beaten, a
white flag of peace is hung out, before a black flag of ury is set up.
He seldom cuts down men by his judgments, before he hath “ hewed
them by his prophets” (Hos. vi. 5). Not aremarkable judgment but
was foretold: the flood to the o d world by Noah; the famine to
Egypt by Joseph; the earthquake by Amos (ch. i. 1); the storm
from Chaldea by Jeremiah; the captivity of the ten tribes by Hosea;
the total destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple by Christ himself
He hath chosen the best persons in the world to give those intima-
tions; Noah, the most righteous person on the earth, for the old
world; and his Son, the most beloved rson in heaven, for the Jews
in the later time: and in other parts oge the world, and in the later
times, where he hath not warned by prophets, he hath supplied it by
rodigies in the air and earth; histories are full of such items ‘from
heaven. Lesser _judgments are forewarners of greater, as lightnings
before thunder are messengers to tell us of a succeeding clap.
(1). He doth often give warning of judgments. He comes not to
extremity, till he hath often shaken the rod over men; he thunders
often, before he crusheth them with his thunderbolt; he doth not
till after the first and second admonition punish a rebel, as he would
have us reject a heretic. “ He speaks once, yea, twice” (Job, xxxiii.
14), “and man perceives it not ;” he sends one message after an-
other, and waits the success of many messages before he strikes.
Eight prophets were ordered to acquaint the whole world with
approaching judgment (2 Pet. ii. 5); he saved “ Noah, the eighth
person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the
world of t e ungodly,” called “the eighth” in respect of his preach-
ing, not in regard of his preservation; he was the eighth preacher
in order, from the beginning of the world, that endeavored to restore
the world to the way of righteousness. Most, indeed, consider him
here as the eighth :son saved, so do our translators; and, there-
fore, add person, whih is not in the Greek. Some others consider
him here as the eighth preacher of righteousness, reckoning Enoch,
the son of Seth, the irst, grounding it upon Gen. iv. 26 : “ Then
began men to call upon the name of the Lord,” Heb. “ Then ,it was
began to call in the name of the Lord,” 16 3v'»w~ T05 Kvelvv Sm?/. Sepl.
“ He began to call in the name of the Lord,” which others render,
“He began to preach, or call upon men in the name of the Lord."
The word xB: signiiies to preach, or to call upon men by preach-
ing (Prov. .i. 21): “ Wisdom crieth," or “ preaches;”_and if this be
so, as it is very probable, it is easy to reckon him the eighth

