490 CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
reacher, by numbering the successive heads of tue nerationl
Gen. v.), beginning at Enoch, the first plreacher of righeteousness
. many there were before God choked t e old world with water,
and swept them away. It is clear he often did admonish, by his
prophets, the Jews o their sin, and the wrath which should come
upon them.” One prophet, Hosea, prophesied. seventy years; for
he prophesied in the da s of four kings of Judah, and one of Israel,
J eroboam, the son of .lbash (Hos. i. 1), or J eroboam, the second of
that name. Uzziah, king of Judah, in whose reign Hosea ro-
phesied, lived thirty-eight years after the death of J eroboam. *Ike
second Jotham, Uzzia.h’s successor, reigned sixteen ears; Ahaz
sixteen; Hezekiah twenty-nine years. Now, take nothing of Heze-
kiah’s time, and date the beginning of his prophecyfrom the last
year of J eroboam’s reign, and the time of Hosea’s ,prophecy will be
seventy ,years complete; wherein God warned t ose people, and
waited t e return particularly of Israel gi and not less than five of
those we call the Lesser Pro hets, were sent to foretell the destruc-
tion of the ten tribes, andp to call them to repentance,-Hosea,
Joel, Amos, Micah, Jonah; and though we have nothing of Jonah’s
prophecy in this concem of Israel, yet that he lived in the time of
the same Jeroboam, and prophesied things which are not upon
record in the book of Jonah, is clear (2 Kings, xiv. 25). And
besides those, Isaiah prophesied also in the reign of the same kings
as Hosea did (Isa. i. 1); and it is God’s usual method to send forth
his servants, and when their admonitions are slighted he commimions
others, before he sends out his dwtroying armies (Matt. xxii.
8 4, 7 _
’(2). )He doth oiten glive warning of judgments, that he might
not pour out his wrat _ He summons them to a surrender of
themselves, and a return from their rebellion, that they might not
feel the force of his arms. He offers peace before he shakes off the
dust of his feet, that his despised peace mi ht not return in vain to
him to solicit a revenge from his anger. He hath a right to punish
upon the first commission of a crime, but 'he warns men ot what
the have deserved, of what his `ustice moves him to inflict, that
by 'having recourse to~his mercy he might not exercise the rights
of his justice. God .sought to kill Moses for not circumcising his
son (Exod. iv. 24). Could God, that sought it, miss a way to do
it? Could a creature lurch, or Hy from him? God put on the
garb of an enemy, that Moses might be discouraged from being an
instrument of his own ruin: God ma.nifested an an(ger against Moses
for his neglect, as if he would then have destroye him, that Moses
might prevent it by casting off his carelewness, and doing his duty.
He sought to kill im by some evident sign, that Moses might es-
cape the judgment by is obedience. He threatens Nineveh, by
the prophet, with destruction, that Nineveh’s repentance might
make void the pro hecy. He 'rights with men by the sword of his
mouth, that he miglit not pierce them by the sword of his wrath.
He threatens, that mexrmight prevent the execution of his threaten-
ing; he terrines, that he might not destroy, but that men by humi-
\ Vid. Gel1‘| Ayyeloxaria. * Sanctius. Prolegom. in Hosea, Prolog. III.

