ON GOD`S PATIENCE. 491
liation may lie dprostrate before him, and move the bowels of his
mercy to a lon er sound than the voice of his anger. He takes
time to whet his sword, that men may turn themselves from the
edge of it. He roars like a lion, that men, by hearing his voice,
may shelter themselves from being torn by his wrath. There is
gstience in the sharpest threatening, that we may avoid the scourge.
ho can charge God with an eagerness to revenge, that sends so
many heralds, and so often before he strikes, that he might be pre-
vented from striking? His threatenin have not so much of a
black flag as of an olive branch. He   u his hand before he
strikes, that men might see and avert the stroke   xxvi. 11). ,
2d. His patience is manifest in long delayin his threatened judg-
ments, thou h he finds no repentance in the re-zgiels. He doth some-
times dela his lighter punishments, because he doth not delight in
torturing   creatures; but ne doth longer delay his destroying un-
ishments, such as ut an end to men’s happiness, and remit them
to their Hnal andpunchangeable state; because he “doth not de-
light in the death of a sinner.” While he is pre aring his arrows,
he is waiting for an occasion to lay them asid)e, and dull their
points, that he may with honor march back again, and disband his
armies. He brings lighter smarts sooner, that men might not think
him asleep, but he suspends the more terrible judgments that men
might be led to repentance. He scatters not his consuming fires at
the first, but brings on ruining vengeance with a “slow pace; sen-
tence against an evil work is not s eedil executed” (Eccles. viii. 11).
The Jews therefore sa , that Michael, the minister of justice, iiies
with one wing, but Gaiiriel, the minister of mercy, with two. An
hundred and twenty years did God wait upon the old world, and
delay their punishment all the time the “ ark was preparing”
(1 Pet.   20); wherein°that wicked generation did not enjoy only
a bare patience, but a. striving patience (Gen. vi. 3): “My S irit
shall not always strive with man, yet his days shall be one hundied
and twenty years,” the days wherein I will strive with him; that
his long-suffering might not lose all its fruit, and remit the objects
of it into the hands of consuming justice. It was the tenth genera-
tion of the world from Adam, when the deluge overiiowed it, so
long did God bear with them: and the tenth generation from Noah
wherein Sodom was consumed. God did not come to keep his as-
sizes in Sodom, till “the cry of their sins was very strong, ’ that it
had been a wrong to his justice to have restrained it any longer.
The cry was so loud that he could not be at quiet, as it were, on
his throne of lor for the disturbing noise (Gen. xviii. 20, 21).
Sin transgressetlli tlie law; the law being violated, solicits justice;
justice, being urged, leads for punishment; the cry of their sins
did, as it were, force bim from heaven to come down, and examine
what cause there was for that clamor. Sin cries loud and long be-
fore he takes his sword in hand. Four hundred years he kept off
deserved destruction from the Amorites, and deferred making good
his promise to Abraham, of givin Canaan tohislposterigy, out of his
long-suffering to the Amorites (gen. xv. 16). n the ourth gene-
ration they shall come hither again, “for the iniquity of the Amor

