492 crmnnoox ON 'run srmmurss.
ites is not yet full.” Their measure was filling then, but not so
full as to put a stop to any further patience till om' 'hundred years
after. The usual time in succeeding generations, from the denounc-
ing of judgments to the execution, is forty years; this some ground
upon Ezek. iv. 6, “Thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house ot
Judah forty days,” taking each day for a year. Though Hosea
lived seventy years, yet from the beginning of his prophes ing
judgments against Israel to the pouring them out upon that idola-
trous people, it was forty years. Hosea, as was mentioned before,
prophesied a inst them in the da s of Jeroboam the Second, in
whose time éaod did wonderfully deliver Israel (2 Kings, xiv. 26,
27). From that time, till the total destruction of the ten tribes, it
was forty years, as may easily be computed from the stor? (2 Kings,
xv.-xvi.), by the reign of t e succeeding kings. So orty years
al?/er the most horrid villany that ever was committedi in the face of
t e sun, mb., the crucif in the Son of God, was erusalem de~
stroyed, and the inhabiiyangs captived; so long did God delay a
visible punishment for such an putrage. .Sometimes he prolongs
sendinfr a threatened jud ent upon a mere shadow of humiliation;
so he did that denouncegmagainst Ahab. He turned it over to his
posterity, and adjourned it to another season (1 Kings, xxi. 29). He
oth not issue out an arrest upon one transgression; you often find
him not commencing a suit against men till “three and four trans-
gressions.” The first of Amos, all along that chapter and the second
chapter, for “three and four," i. e. “seven ;” a certain number for an
uncertain. He `ves not orders t.o his judgments to march till men
be obstinate, and-l refuse an commerce with him; he stops them till
“ thirein be nphrimedy" (2 glgrgn. Ecxvikgi). It 1r;1§istHl;‘e ah great
wie e ess a ives ven o em os. x. ; . our
wickedness of vsiiclgedness." He is so “ slow’to anger,” and stays the
ppsnishment his enemies deserve, that he ma seem to have forgot
` “kindness to his friends” (Ps. xliv. 2<?: “ %'Vherefore hidest thou
thy face, and forgettest our afliiction an oppression ?” He lets his
people groan under the yoke of their enem1es,as if he were made
up of kindness to his enemies, and anger inst his friends. This
delaying of punishment to evil men is msg in his suspending the
terrifyin acts of conscience, and sup orting it only in its checking,-
admonisging, and controllin acts. The atience of a governor is
seen in the patient mildness 0% his deputy: §)avid’s conscience did not
terrify him till nine months after his sin of murder. Should God
set open the mouth of this power within us, not only the earth, but
our own bodies and spirits, would be a burden to us: itis long be-
ibre God puts scorpions into the hands of men’s consciences to
scourge them: he holds back the rod, waiting for the hour of our
peturn, as if that would be a recompense for our offences and his
orbearance.
Sd. His patience is manifest in his unwillingness to execute his
judgments when he can delay no longer. “He doth not afliict
willingly, nor grieve the children of men” (Lam.   33): Heb. “ He
doth not afilict from his heart "’ he takes no pleasure in it, as he is
Creator. The height of tions, and the necessity of the

