ON cons iwrrrzncs. 493
preservinéhis rights, and vindicating his laws, obligeth him to it, as
e is the overnor of the world; as a _jud e may willin ly condemn
a malefact/or to death out of affection to the laws, and desire to pre-
serve the order of government, but unwillingly, out of compassion
to the offender himselfl When he resolved upon the destruction of
the old world, he spake it as a God grieved with an occasion of pun~
isliment (Gen. vi. 6, 7, compared together). \Vhen he came to reckon
with Adam, “ he walked,” he did not run with his sword in his hand
upon him, as a might_y man with an eagerness to destroy him (Gen.
iii. 8(), and that “in the cool of the day,’ a time when men, tired in
the ay, are unwilling to engage in a hard employment. His exer-
cising gudgment is a “coming out of his place” (Isa. xxvi. 21 ; Mic.
i. 3): e comes out of his station to exercise judgment; a throne is
more his place than atribunal. Every prophecy, oaded with threat-
enings, is called the “ burden of the Lord; a burden to him to exe-
cute it, as. well as to men to suffer it. Though three angels came to
Abraham about the punishment of Sodom, whereof one Abraham
speaks to as to God, yet but two appeared at the destruction of Sod-
om, as if the Governor of the world were unwilling to be present at
such dreadful work (Gen. xix. 1) : and when the man, that had the
ink-horn by his side, that was appointed to mark those that were to
be preserved in the common destruction, returned to give an account
ofthe performin his commission (Ezek. ix. 10), we read not of the
return of those gmt were to kill, as if God delighted only to hear
again of his works of merc , and had no mind to hear again of his
severe proceedings. The Iews, to show God’s unwillingness to
unish, imagine that hell was created the second day, because that
Hays work is not pronounced good by God as all the other days’
Works are* (Gen. 1. 8).
(1.) When God doth punish he doth it with some revret. When
he hurls down his thundcrs, he seems to do it with a bacikward hand,
because with an unwilling heart.! He created, saith Chrysostom, the
world in six days, but was seven days in destroying one city, Jericho,
which he had before devoted to be razed to the ground. \Vhat is the
reason, saith_ he, that God is so quick to build up, but slow to pull
down? His gbodness excites his power to the one, but is not earn-
est to persuade him to the other: when he comes to strike, he doth
it with a sigh or groan (Isa. i. 24): “ Ah! I will ease me of my ad-
versaries, and avenge me on my enemies,” wi, Ah! a note of griei
S0 Hos. vi. 4, “ O Ephraim! what shall I do unto thee? O Judah!
what shall I do unto thee ?” It isan addulritatio, a figure in rhetoric,
as if God were troubled ,that he must deal so sharply with them, and
give them up to their enemies :-I have tried all means to reclaim
you; I have used all ways of kindness, and nothing prevails; what
shall I do? my mercy invites me to spare them, and their ingratitude
rovokes me to ruin them. God had borne with that people of
Israel almost three hundred years, from the setting u of the calves
at Dan and Bethel; sent many a prophet to warn them, and spent
many a rod to reform them : and when he comes to execute his
threatenings, he doth with a conflict in himself (Hos. xi. 8): “How
ll Mercer in Gen. 1 Creeeol. Decad. II. p. 168.

