494 cnannocx ON 'rms Arramurrs.
shall I give thee up, O Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee, Israelf'
as if there were a pull-back in his own bowels. He solemnizetb
their ap roaching funeral with a hearty groan, and takes his farewell
of the diying malefactor with a pang in himself How often, in for-
mer times, when he had signed a warrant for their execution, did he
call it back? (Ps. lxxviii. 38): “ Many a time t1u'ned he his anger
away.” Many a time he recalled or ordered his anger to return
again, as the word signifies, as if he were irresolute what to do: he
recalled it, as a man doth his servant, several times, when he is
sending him upon an unwelcome message; or as a tender-hearted
prince wavers and trembles when he is to sign a writ for the death
of a rebel that hath been before his favorite, as if when he had sign-
ed the writ, he blotted out his name again, and flung away the pen.
And his method is remarkable when he came to punish Sodom,
though the cry of their sin had been iierce in his ears, yet when he
comes to make inquisition, he declares his intention to Abraham, as
if he were desirous that Abraham should have helped him to some
arguments to stop the outgoings of his judglment. He gave liberty
to the best person in the worl to stand in t e ga , and enter into a
treaty with him, to show, saith one,“\ how willinglly his mercy would
have compounded with his justice for their redemption; and Abra-
ham interceded so long, till he was ashamed for pleading the cause
of patience and mercy to the wrong of the rights of Divine justice.
Perhaps, had Abraham had the courage to ask, God would have
had the compassion to grant a reprieve just_ at the time of execution.
(2.) His patience is manifest in that when he begins to send out
his judgments, he doth it by degrees. His judgments are “ as the
morning light,” which goes forth by degrees in the hemis here (Hoa.
vi. 5). He doth not shoot all his thunders at once, and) bring his
sharpest judgments in arra at one time, but gradually, that a people
may have time to turn to him (Joel, i. 4). First the palmer-worm,
then the locust, then the canker-worm, then the caterpillar; what
one left, the other was to eat, if there were not a timely return. A
Jewish writer" saith, these judgments came not all in one year, but
one year after another. The palmer-worm and locust might have
eaten all, but Divine patience set bounds to the devouring ereat1n~es.
God had been first as a moth to Israel (Hos. v. 12): “ Tnerefore will
I be to the house of Ephraim as a moth ;” Rivet translates it, “I
have been ;” in the Hebrew it is “ I,” without addin “ I havebeen,”
or “I will be," and more probably “I have been ;”% was as a moth,
which makes little holes in a garment, and consumes it not all at
once; and as “rottenness to the house of Judah,” or a worm that
eats into wood by degrees. Indeed, this people had consumed in-
sensibly, partly by civil combustions, change of governors, foreign
invasions, yet they were as obstinate in their idolatry as ever; at
last God would be no longer to them as a moth, but as a lion, tear
and go away (ver. 14): so Hos. ii., God had disowned Israel for his
spouse (ver. 2), “She is not my wife, neither am I her husband ;"
yet he had not taken away her ornaments, which by the right nf
divorce he might have done, but still expected her reformation, ix
' Pierce, Sinner Implead. p. 227. ' Kimdii.

