on Gorrs iwrmncn. 495
that the threatening intimates (ver. 3); let her put away ner whore-
dom, “lest I stri her naked, and set her as in the day when she
was born,” If she returned, she might recover what she had lost;
if not, she might be stri ped of what remained: thus God dealt with
Judah (Ezek. ix. 32. The glory of God   first from the cherub
to the threshold o the house, and stays there, as if he had a mind to
be invited back again; then it goes from the threshold of the house,
and stands over the cherubims, as if upon a penitent call it would
drop down again to its ancient station and seat, over which it hover-
ed (Ezek. x. 18); and when he was not solicited to return, he cle-
parts out of the city, and stood upon the mountain, which is on the
east part of the city (Ezek. xi. 23), looking still towards, and hover-
ing about the temple, which was on the east of Jerusalem, as if loth
to depart, and abandon the place and people. He walks so leisurely,
with is rod in his hand, as if he had a mind rather to fling it away
than use it; his patience in not pouring out all his vials, is more re-
markable than his wrath in pouring out one or two. Thus hath God
made his slowness to anger visible to us in the gradual unishment
of us; first, the pestilence on this city, then firing our lilouses, con-
sumption of trade; these have not been answered with such a carriage
as God expects, therefore a greater is reserved. I dare prognosti-
cate, liipon reasons you may gather from what hath been spoke be-
fore, ' I be not much mistaken, the forty years of his usual patience
are very near ex ired ; he hath inflicted some, that he might be met
with in a way of? repentance, and omit with honor the inflicting the
remainder.
4th. His patience is manifest, in moderating his judgments, when
he sends them. Doth he em ty his quiver of his arrows, or exhaust
his magazines of thunder? glo; he could roll one thunderbolt suc-
cessively upon all mankind; it is as easy with him to create a perpet-
ual motion of lightning and thunder, as of the sun and stars, and
make the world as terrible by the one, as it is delightful by the
other. He opens not all his store, he sends out a light party to skir-
mish with men, and puts not in array his whole army; “He stirs
not up all his wrath” (Ps. lxxviii. 38); he doth but pinch, where he
might have torn asunder; when he takes away much, he leaves
enough to su port us; if he had stirred up all his anger, he had
taken away ail, and our lives to boot. He rakes up but a few sparks,
takes but one Hrebrand to fling upon men, when he might discharge
the whole furnace upon them; he sends but a few drops out of the
cloud, which he might make to break in the gross, and fall down
upon our heads to overwhelm us; he abates much of what he might
do. When he might sweep away a whole nation by deluges of
water, corruption of the air, or convulsions of the earth, or by other
ways that are not wanting at his order; he picks out only some
persons, some families, some cities; sends a plague into one house,
and not into another; here is patience to the stock of a nation, while
he inilicts punishment u on some of the most notorious sinners in it.
Herod is suddenly snatched away, being willinglly flattered into the
thoughts of his being a od; God siggled out t e chief in the herd
for whose sake he had been anion by the rabble (Acts   22,

