496 CHARNOCK ON THE mrrarsuras.
23). Some ind him sparing them, while others feel him dwtroving
them; he arrests some, when he might seize all, all being his debt-
ors; and often in great desolations brought upon a eo le for their
sin, he hath left a stump in the earth, as Daniel spea£s (gan. iv. 15),
for a nation to grow upon it asain, and arise to a stronger constitu-
tion. He doth punish “less than our iniquities deserve" (Ezra ix.
18), and rewards us “not according to om' iniquities" (Ps. ciii. 10).
The greatness of any unishment in this life, answers not the great-
ness of the crime. llhough there be an equity in whatsoever he
doth, yet there is not an equality to what we deserve; our iniquities
'would `ustify a severer treating of us; his justice goes not here to
the end of its line, it is stop ed in its progress, and the blows of it
weakened by his atience; he did not curse the earth after Adarn’s
fall, that it should bring forth no fruit, but that it should not bring tbrth
fruit without the wearisome toil of man, and subjected him to distem-
pers presently, but inflicted not death immediately; while he pun-
ished him, he supported him; and while he expelled him from
paradise, he did not order him not to cast his eye towards it, and
conceive some hopes of regaining that happy place.
5th, His patience is seen in giving great mercies after provoca-
tions. He is so slow to anger, that he heaps many kinduesses upon
a rebel, instead of punishment. There is a prosperous wickedness,
wherein the provoker’s strength continues firm; the troubles, which
like clouds drop upon others, are blown away from them, and they
are “ not plagued like other men,” that have a more worthy dr-
meanor towards God (Ps. lxxiii.   He doth not only continue
their lives, but sends out fresh beams of his goodness upon them,
and calls them by his blessings, that they may acknowledge their
own fault and his bounty, which he is not obliged to by any grati-
tude he meets with from them, but by the richness of his own patien‘
nature: for he finds the unthankfulness of men as great as his bene~
tits to them. He doth not only continue his outward merries, while
we continue our sins, but sometimes gives fresh benetits after new
rovocations, that if possible he might excite an ingenuity in men.
§lVhen Israel at the Red Sea flung dirt in the face of God, by quar-
relling with his servant Moses for bringing them out of Egypt, and
misjudging God in his design of deliverance, and were ready to sub-
mit themselves to their former oppressors (Exod. xiv. '11, 12), which
might justly have urged God to say to them, Take your own coursf ~
yet he is not only dpatient under their unjust charge, but “makes
are his arm in a eliverance at the Red Sea,” that was to be an
amazing monument to the world in all ages; and afterwards, when
they repiningly quarrelled with him in their wants in the wildemess,
he did not onl not revenge himself upon them, or cast off the con-
duct of them, lint bore with them by la miraculous long-suffering,
and supplied them with miraculous provision,-manna from heaven,
and water from a rock. Food is iven to support us, and clothes to
cover us, and Divine patience maies the creature which we turn to
another use than what they were at first intended for, serve us con-
trary to their own genius: for had they reason, no 'question but
they would complain to be subjected to the service of man, who

