'oN eon‘s rarrnucn. 497
hath been so ungrateful to their Creator, and groan at the abuse
of God’s patience, in the abuse they themselves suffer from the
hands of man.
6th, All this is more manifest, if we consider the provocations he
hath. Wherein his slowness to anger infinitely transcends the a-
tience of any creature; nay, the spirits of all the angels and glorified
saints in heaven, would be too narrow to bear the sins of the world
for one day, nay, not so much as the sins of churches, which is a lit-
tle spot in the whole world; it is because he is the Lord, one of an
infinite power over himself that not only the whole mass of the re-
bellious world, but of the sons of Jacob (either considered as a
church and nation springin nom the loins of Jacob, or considered
as the regenerate part of the world, sometimes called the seed of
Jacob), “are not consumed” (Mal. iii. 6). A Jonah was angxgy with
God, for recalling his anger trom a. sinful people; had Go com-
mitted the government of the world to the g oriiied saints, who are
perfect in love and holiness, the world would have had an end lon
ago ; they would have acted that which they sue for at the hands 0%
God, and is not granted them. “How long, Lord, holy and truet
dost thou not avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
(Rev. vi. 10). God hath designs of patience above the world, above
the unsinning angels, and perfectly renewed spirits in glory. The
greatest created long~suH`er1ng is infinitely disproportioned to the Di-
vine: fire from heaven would have been showered down before the
atest part of a day were spent, if a created patience had the con-
iict of the world, though that creature were possessed with the spirit
of patience, extracted from all the creatures which are in heaven, or
are, or ever were u on the earth. Methinks Moses intimates this; for
as soon as God had) passed by, roclaiming his name gracious and
long suffering, as soon as ever hibses had paid his adoration, he falls
to praying that God would go with the Israelites; “For it is a stiff?
necked people” (Exod. xxxiv. 8, 9). What an argument is here for
God to go along with them! he might rather, since he had heard
him but just before sa “he would by no means clear the guilt ,”
desire God to stand fiirther off from them, for fear the fire of his
wrath should burst out from him, to burn them as he did the Sodom-
ites. But he considers, that as none but God had such anger to
destroy them, so none but God had such a patience to bear with
them; it is as much asif he should have said, Lord! if thou shouldest
send the most tender-hearted angel in heaven to have the guidance
of this people, they would be a lost people; a period will quickly
be set to their lives, no created strength can restrain its power from
crushing such a stiff-necked eople; flesh and blood cannot bear
them, nor an created spirit of) a greater might. A
(1.) Considier the greatness of the provocations. No light matter,
but actions of a great denance: what is the practical language of
most in the world, but that of Pharoah? “Who is the Lord, that I
should obey him ?” How many questions his being, and more his
authorit 7 What blasphemies of him, what reproaches of his Ma-
jesgyl lien “drinking up iniquity like water, ' and with a haste
an ardency “rushing into sin, as t e home into the battle.” What
vox.. n.-32

