I
498 CHARNOCK ON 'run Arrnmvrns. - "
is there in the reasonable creature, that hath the quickest capacity
and the deepest obligation to serve him, but opposition and enmity,
a slight of him in everything, yea, the services most seriously per-
formed, unsuited to the roya ty and purity of so great a Being such
provocations as dare him to his face, that are a burden to so right~
eous a Jud e, and so great a lover of the authorit and majesty of
his laws; that were there but a spark of anger in him, it is a wonder
it doth not show itself When he is invaded in all his attributes, it
is astonishing that this sin le one of patience and meekness should
withstand the assault of all the rest of his perfections; his being,
which is attacked by sin, speaks for' vengeance; his justice cannot
be imagined to stand silent without charging the sinner. His holi-
ness cannot but encourage his justice to urge its pleas, and be an ad-
vocate for it. His omniscience proves the truth of all the charge,
and his abused mercy hath little encouragement to make opposition
to the indictment; nothin but patience stands in the gap to keep
oli' the arrest of judgment from t e sinner. '
(2.) His patience is manifest, if you consider the multitudes of these
provocations. Every man hath sin enough in a day to make him
stand amazed at Divine patience, and to call it, as wel as the apostle
did, “ all long-suffering’ (1 Tim. i. 1% How few duties of a per-
fectly right stamp are performed! hat unworthy considerations
mix themselves, like dross, with our urest and sincerest gold ! How
more numerous are the res ts of the worshippers of him to them-
selves, than imto him! £§ many services are paid him, not out
of love to him, but because he should do us no hurt, and some ser-
vice; when we do not so much desi n to please him, as to please
ourselves by expectations of a reward from him! What master
would endure a servant that endeavored to please him, only because
he should not kill him? Is that former charge of God u on the old
world yet out of date, “That the imagination of the thoughts of
the heart of man was only evil, and that continually ?” (Gen. vi. 5.)
Was not the new world as chargeable with it as the old? Certainly
it was (Gen. viii. 21) ; and is of as much force this very minute as
it was then. How many are the sins against knowledge, as well as
those of ignorance; presumptuous sins, as well as those of iniirmity!
How numerous those of omission and commission! It is above t e
reach of any man’s understanding to conceive all the blasphemies,
oaths, thefts, adulteries, murders, o pressions, contempt of religio
the open idolatries of Turks and hieathens, ,the more spiritual anld
refined idolatries of others.° Add to those, the ingratitude of those
that profess his name, their pride, earthliness, carelessness, slu ` h-
ness to Divine duties, and in every one of those a multituggisof
provocations; the whole man being engaged in every sin, the under-
standin" contriving it, the will embracing it, the affections compl -
ing wifii it, and all the members of the body instruments in the
acting the unrighteousness of it; every one of these faculties be-
stowed upon men by him, are armed against him in every act: and
in every employment of them there is a distinct provocation, thou h
centred in one sinful end and object. What are the offences all the
° Leuius, p. 159.

