on cows rsrmncn. 499
men of the world receive from their fellow-creatures, to the injuries
God receives from men, but as a small dust of earth to the whole
mass of earth and heaven too? What multitudes of sins is one
gryofane wretch guilty of in the space of twenty, forty, flftynyears?
ho can compute the vast number of his transgressions, in the
first use of reason to the time of the separation of his soul from his
body, from his entrance into the world to his exit? What are
those, to those of a whole village of the like inhabitants? What
are those, to those of a great city? Who can number up all the
foul-rnouthed oaths, the beastly excess, the goatish uneleanness, com-
mitted in the space of a day, year, twenty years in this cit , much
l  in the whole nation, least of all, in the whole world? %Vere it
no more than the common idolatry of former ages, when the whole
world turned their backs upon their Creator, and passed him by to
sue to a creature, a stock or stone, or a degraded spirit? How pro-
voking would it be to a prince to see a whole city under his domin-
ion deny him a respect, and pay it to his scullion, or the common
exeoutionerthe employs! Add to this the unjust invasion of kings,
the oppressionfexercxsed u n men, all the private and public sins
that have been in the worldxdver since it began. The Gentiles were
dmcribed by the apostle (Rom. i. 29--31), in a black character,
“ 'llhey~were haters of God,” et how did the “riches of his pa~
tience’ preserve, multitudes _oiy such dis' enuous persons, and how
“many millions of such haters of himglireathe every day in his
air, and are maintained .by his bounty, have their tables s read, and
their cups ‘filled to the brim, and that, too, in the midst ofp reiterated
belchings of their enmity against him? All are under sufficient
provocations of him to the highest indignation. The presiding
angels over nations could not forbear, in love and honor to their
governor, to arm themselves to the destruction of their several
charges, if Divine atience did not set them a pattern, and their
obedience incline them to expect his orders, before they act what
dieir zeal would prompt them to. The devils would be glad of a.
commission to destroy the world, but that his patience puts a stop
to their fury, as well as his own justice.
(3.) Consider the long time of this patience. He spread out his
hands “all the day” to a rebellious world glsa. lxv. 2). All men’s
day, all God’s day, which is a “thousan years,” he hath borne
with the gross of mankind, with all the nations of the world in a
long succession of es, for five thousand years and upwards already,
and will bear withtiem till the time comes for the world’s dissolu-
tion. He hath suffered the monstrous acts of men, and endured the
contradictions of a sinful world against himself, from the first sin of
Adam, to the last committed this minute. The line of his patience
hath run along with the duration of the world to this day; and there
is not any one of Adam’s posterity but hath been expensive to him,
and partaken of the riches of it.
(4.) All these he bears when he hath a sense of them. He sees
every day the roll and catalogue of sin increasing; he hath a distinct
view of every one, from the sin of Adam to the last filled up in his
lmniscience; and yet gives no order for the a.rrest of the world. He

