500 cnaimocx ON 'mn A'I'TRIBU'|.‘ES. `
knows men ‘dtted for destruction; all the instants he exerciseth lo
suife ' towards them, which makes the apostle call it not simgfy
long-lsluugering, without the addition of nollip, “ much long-suffering"
(Rom. ix. 23). There is not a grain in the whole mass of sin, that
he hath not a distinct knowledge of, and of the quality of it. He
perfectly understands the greatness of his own majesty that is vili-
ed, and the nature of the offence that doth disparage him. He if
solicited by his justice, directed by his omniscience, and armed with
gudgments to vindicate himseli but his arm is restrained by patience
o conclude: no indignity is hid from him, no iniquity is be oved by
him; the hatred of their sinfulness is infinite, and the knowledge of
the malice is exact. The subsisting of the world under such weighty
provocations, so numerous,. so long time, and with his iiill sense
of every one of them, is an evidence of such a “forbearance and
long-suffering,” that the addition of riches which the apostle puts
to it (Rom.   4), labors with an insufficiency clearly to display it.
III. Why God doth exercise so much patience.
1. To show himself appeasable. God did not declare by his pa-
tience to former ages, or an age, that he was appeased with them,
or that they were in his fgvor; but that he was appeasable, that
he was not an implacable enemy, but that they might ind him
favorable to them, if they did seek after him. The continuance
of the world by patience, and the bestowing many mercies by
goodness, were not a natural revelation of the manner how he
would be appeased: that was made known only by the prophets,
and after the coming of Christ b the a stles; and had indeed
been intelligible in some sort to the wholeoworld, had there been
a faithfulness in Adam’s posterity, to transmit the tradition of the
Rust promise to succeeding generations. Had not the knowledge
of that died by their carelessness and neglect, it had been easy
to tell the reason of God’s patience to be in order to the exhibition
of the “Seed of the woman to bruise the serpent’s head.” They
oould not but naturally know themselves sinners, and worthy of
death; they might, by easy reflections upon themselves, collect that
they were not in that comely and harmonious posture now, as they
were when God first wrought them with his own finger, and placed
them as his lieutenants in the world; they knew they did grievously
offend him; this they were taught by the sprinklings of' his judg-
ments among them sometimes. And since he did not utterly root
up mankind, his sparing patience was a prologue of some f\u'ther
favors, or pardoning grace to be dis layed to the world by some
methods of God yet unknown to them. Though the earth was
something impaired by the curse after the fall, yet the main pillars
of it stood; the state of the natural motions of the creature was not
changed; the heavens remained in the same osture wherein they
were created; the sun, and moon, and other heavenly bodies, con~
tinued their usefulness and refreshing influences to man.
The heavens did still “declare the glory of God, day unto day"
did “ utter speech; their line is gone throughout all the earth, and
their words to the end of the world” (Ps. xix.1-4) : which declared
Godwbewillingtodogood to hiscreatures, andwereassomany
U

