' ON Goirs PATIENCE. 501
legible letters or rudiments, whereby they might read his patience,
and that a further desi of favor to the world lay hid in that pa-
tience. Paul a plies this to the preaching of the gospel (Rom. X.
18): “Have dlmey not heard the word of God? yes, veril , their
sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the endy of the
world." Redeeming grace could not be spelled out by them in a
clear notion, but'yet they did declare that which is the foundation
of goipel mercy. Were not God patient, there were no room for a
ospe mercy, so that the heavens declare the gospel, not formally,
§ut fundamentally, in declaring the long-suffering of God, without
which no ospel had been framed, or could have been expected.
The could not but read in those things favorable inclinations to-
wards them: and though they could not be ignorant that they de~
served a mark of justice, yet seeing themselves supported by God,
and beholding the regular motions of the heavens from day to day,
and the revolutions of the seasons of the year, the natural conclu-
sions they might draw froni thence was, that God was placable;
since he behaved himself more as a tender friend, that had no mind
to be at war with them, than an enraged enemy. The good things
which he gave them, and the patience whereby he s ared them,
were no arguments of an implacable diiplosition ; and, flierefore, of
a disposition willing to be appeased. is is clearly the design of
the apostle’s arguing with the Lystrians, when they would have oil
fered sacrifices to Paul (Acts, xiv. 17). When God “ suifered all na~
tions to walk in their own ways, he did not leave himself without
witness, giving rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons.” What were
those witnesses of? not only of the being of a God, by their readi-
ness to sacrifice to those that were not gods, only su posed to be so
in their false imaginations; but witnesses to the tendlerness of God,
that he had no mind to be severe with his creatures, but would
allure them by ways of goodness. Had not God’s patience tended
to this end, to bring the world under another dispensation, the
apostle’s arguing from it had not been suitable to his design, which
seems to be a hindering the sacrifices they intended for them, and a
drawing them to embrace the gospel, and therefore preparing the
way to it, by speaking of the patience and goodness of God to them,
as an unquestionable testimony of the reconcilableness of good'to
them, by some sacrifice which was represented under the common
notion of sacrifices! These things were not witnesses of Christ, or
syllables whereb they could spell out the redeeming person; but
witnesses that Cllbd was placable in his own nature. When man
abused those noble faculties God had given him, and diverted them
from the use and service God intended them for, God might have
stripped man of them the first time that he misemployed them; and
it would have seemed most agreeable to his wisdom and justice, not
to suffer himself to be abused, and the world to go contrary to its
natural end. But since he did not level the world with its first
nothing, but healed the world so favorably, it was evident that his
patience pointed the world to a further design of mercy and ood-
ness in him. To imagine that God had no other design in his long-
| Amyrald, Dissert.. pp. 191, 192.

