502 cnsnuoox ON 'mm L'I'l‘RI`BU’I‘ES.
suffering but that of vengeance, had been a notion unsuitable to tht
goodness and wisdom of God. He would never have pretended
imself to be a friend, if he had harbored nothing but enmity in his
heart against them. It had been far from his goodness to give them
a cause to suspect such a design in.hi.m, as his patience certainly did,
had he not intended it. Had he preserved men only for punishment,
it is more like he would have treated men as primes do those they
reserve for the axe or halter, give them only things necessary to up-
hold their lives till the da of execution, and not have bestowed
upon them so many good things to make their lives delightful to
them, nor have furnished them with so many excellent means to
please their senses, and recreate their minds; it had been a moclrihixg
of them to treat them at that rate, if nothin but punishment
been intended towards them. If the end o§ it, to lead men to re-
ntance, were easily intelligibleb them, as the apostle intimates
lllom. ii. 4;-which is to be   with the former chapter, a dis-
course of t e Gentiles: “Not knowing,” saith he, “that the riches
of his forbearance and oodness leads thee to repentance”-it also
gives them some ground to hope for pardon. For what other argu-
ment can more induce to repentance than an expectation of mercy
u n a relenting, and acknowledging the crime? Without a design
ogpardoning grace, his atience would have been in a. great mea-
sure exercised in vain: fiir by mere patience God is not reconciled
to a sinner, no more than a prince to a rebel, by bearing with him.
Nor can a sinner conclude himself in the favor of God, no morethan
a rebel can conclude himself in the favor of his prince; only, this
he may conclude, that there is some hopes he may have the grant
'Jrf a ardon, since he hath time to sue it out. And so much did the
patie§ce‘of God naturally signify that he was of a reconcilable tem-
per, and was willing men should sue out their pardon upon repenff
ance; otherwise, he might have magniiied his justice, and con-
demned men by the law of works.
(2.) He therefore exercised so much patience to wait for men’s
repentance. All the notices and warnings -that God gives men, of
either public or personal calamities, isa ,continual invitation to re~
pentance. This was the' common ,interpretation the heathens made
_of extraordinary presages and prodigies, which showed as well the
delays as the approaches of judgments. What other notion but this,
that those warnings of judgments witness a slowness to anger, and a
willingness to turn his arrows- another way, -should move them to
multiply sacriiiees, go weeping to their temples, sound out prayers
to their gods, and show all .those other testimonies of a repentance
which their blind understandings hit upon? If a prince should
sometimes in a light and gentle manner punish a criminal,” and then
relax it, and show him much kindness, and afterwards inflict u n
him another kind of punishment as light as the former, and lem than
was due to his crime, what could the maleiactor suspect by such a
way of proceedin , but that the prince, by those gently-repeated
chnstisements, had a mind to move him to a re t for his crime ?‘\
And what other thoughts could men naturally his cf G0d’s con-
~ smynim. Mom. rom. 'I p isa.

