T ON Gorrs PATIENGE. 505
duct, that he should warn them of great judgments, send light
ailiictions, which are testimonies rather of a patience than of a severe
wrath, but that it was intended to move them to a relenting, and a
breaking off their sins by working righteousness? Though Divine
patience does‘ not, in the event, induce men to repentance, yet the
natural tendency of such a treatment is to mollify men’s hearts, to
overcome their obstinacy; and no man hath any reason to judge
otherwise of such a rooeeding. The “ long-suffering of God is sal-
vation,” saith Peter fi Pet. iii. 15), i. e. hath a tendency to salvation,
in its being a solicitation of men to the means of it; for the apostle
cites Paul for the confirmation of it,-“ Even as our beloved brother,
Paul, hath written unto you,” which must refer to Rom, ii. 4: “it
leads to repentance,” Gyn, it conducts, which is more than barely to
invite; it oth, as it were, take us by the hand, and point us to the
way Wherein we should go; and for this end it was exercised, not
only towards the Jews, but towards the Gentiles, not only towards
those that are within the ale of the church, and under the dews of
the gospel, but to those that are in darkness, and in the shadow of
deat ; for this discourse of the apostle was but an inference from
what he had treated of in the first cha ter concerning the idolatry
and ingratitude of the Gentiles; since are Gentiles were to be pun-
ished for the abuse of it as well as the Jews, as he intimates, ver. 9.
It is plain that his patience, which is exercised towards the idol-
atrous Gentiles, was to allure them to repentance as well as others;
and it was a suflicient motive in itself to persuade them to a change
of their vile and gross acts, to such as were morall good : and there
was enough in God’s dealing with them, and in tliat light they 'had
to engage them to a better course than what they usually walked in;
and t ough men do abuse God’s long-suffering, to encourage their
impenitence, and persistingmin their crimes, yet that they cannot
reasonably imagine that to the end of God is evident; t cir own
gripes of conscience would acquaint them that it is otherwise. They;
now that conscience is a ` rinciple that God hath `ven them, as we
as understanding, and will? and other faculties; get God doth not
a prove of that which the voice of their own consciences, and of
the consciences of all men under natural light, are utterly against:
and if there were really, in this forbearance of God, an approbation
of men’s crimes, conscience could not, frequently and universally in
all men, check them for them. What authority could conscience
have to do it? But this it doth in all men: as the apostle Sltom. i.
22), “They know the judgment of God, that those that o such
things,” which he had mentioned before, “are worthy of death.”
In this thing the consciences of all men cannot err: they could not,
therefore, conclude from hence God’s a robation of their iniqui-
ties, but his desire that their hearts should)he touched with a repent-
ance for them. The “sin of Ephraim is hid” (Hos. xiii. 12, 13); i. e.
God doth not presently take notice of it, to order punishment; he
lays it in a secret place from the eye of his justice, that Ephraim
might not be his unwise son, and “sta long in the place of the
breaking forth of children ;” i. e. that he should speedily reclaim
himself, and not continue in the way of destruction. Go ,hath no

