I
504 cnannocx ON rma: arrnmnrrs. '
need to abuse any; he doth not lie to the sons of men; if he would
have men perish, he could easily destroy them, and have done it
long! ago: he did not leave the woman Jezebel in being, nor length-
ene out her time, but as a space to repent §Rev. ii. 21), that she
might reiiect upon her ways, and devote hersel seriously to his ser-
vice, and her own happiness. His patience stands between the
offending creature and eternal misery a long time, that men might
not foolishly throw away their souls, and be damned for their im-
penitency; by this he shows himself ready to receive men to mercy
upon their return. To what purpose doth he invite men to repent-
ance,   he intended to deceive them, and damn them after they
re ent
Iii. He doth exercise patience for the propagation of mankind. If
God punished every sin presently, there would not onl be a eriod
put to churches, but to the world; without patience, Adiim had) sunk
into eternal anguish the irst moment of is provocation, and the
whole world of mankind, in his loins, had perished with him, and
never seen the light. If this perfection had not interposed after the
first sin, God had lost his end in the creation of the world, which he
“ created not in vain, but formed it to be inhabited” (Isa. xlv. 18).
It had been inconsistent with the wisdom of God to make a world
to be inhabited, and destroy it upon sin, when it had but two rin~
cipal inhabitants in it; the reason of his making this earth had been
insignificant; he had not had any upon earth to glorify him, without
erecting another world, which might have proved as sinful and as
guickly wicked as this; God should have always been pulling down
own and rearing u , creating and annihilating; one world would
have come after another, as wave after wave in the sea; His patience
stepped in to support the honor of God, and the continuance of men,
pithout which one had been in part impaired, and the other totally
OSL
4. He doth exercise patience for the continuance of the church.
If he be not patient toward sinners, what stock would there be for
believers to spring up 5-om? He bears with the provoking carriage
of men, evil men, because out of their loins he intends to extract
others, which he will form for the glory of his grace. He hath some
unborn that belong to the election of grace, which are to be the seed
of the worst of men; Jeroboam, the chief incendiary of the Israelitw
to idolatry, had an Abijah, in whom was found “some good thing
towards the Lord God of Israel” (1 Kings, xiv. 13). Had Ahaz been
snapped in the first act of his wickedness, the Israelites had wanted
so good a prince and so good a man as Hezekiah, a branch of that
wicked predecessor. What gardener' cuts off the thorns from the
rose-brush till he hath gathered the roses? and men do not use to
burn all the crab-tree, but preserve a stock to engraft some sweet
fruit upon. There could not have been a saint in the earth, nor,
consequently, in heaven, had it not been for this perfection: he did
not destroy the Israelites in the wilderness, that he might keep up a
church among them, and not extinguish the whole seed that were
heirs of the promises and covenant made with Abraham. Had God
punished men f>r their sins as soon as they had been committed.,

