on sons PATIENCE. 505
none would have lived to have been better, none could have con-
tinued in the world to honor him by their virtues. Manasseh had
never been a convert, and many brutish men had never been changed
from beasts to angels, to praise and acknowledge their Creator. Had
Peter received his due recompense upon the denial of his Master, he
had never been a martyr for im; nor had Paul been a preacher of
the gospel; nor any else : and so the gosgj had not shined in any
%sof the world. No seed would have en brought into Christ;
t is beholdin(g immediately to this attribute for all the seed he
hath in the worl : it is for his name’s sake that he doth defer his
anger; and for his praise that he doth refrain from “cutting us oif"
gsa. xlviii. 9): and in the next chapter follows a pro hecy of Christ.
o overthrow mankind for sin, were to prevent die spreading a
church in the world: a woman that is guilty of a capital crime, and
lies under a condemning sentence, is reprieved from execution for
her being with child; it is for the chi1d's sake the woman is respited,
not for her own: it is for the elect’s sake, in the loins of transgressors,
that they age a long time gpared, and not for their own (Isa. lxv.
8 : “ As t e new wine is ound in a cluster, and one saith, De-
stiroy it not, for a blessing is in it, so will I do for my servants’ sakes,
that I may not destroy them all ;” as a husbandman spares a vine for
some good clusters in it. He had spoke of vengeance before, yet
he would reserve some from whom he would bring forth those t at
zgould be I igheritorsupig his aréountains,” that he might make up his
urrfh of u ea; Jer em in a mountainous lace, and the t e
of the church in all ages. Whatgis the reason hepdoth not levelyhlis
li`§§d§§£li§§§ Ei? Sitif‘2';i§,’r.1§ii§fi1§1§Sli§i3”<1i`§vfi§?`t§eiSi
Becguse God had others to write _a testimony for him in their own
blood, and perhaps out of the loins of those for whom vengeance
Kas so earnestly supplicated; and God, as the master of a vessel,
`es patientl at anchor, till the last assen er he ex ects betaken in.\’
5. For thi; sake of his church hepis patient to wibked men. The
tares are patiently endured till the harvest, for fear in the plucking
u the one, there might be some prejudice done to the other. Upon
tdis account he ares some, who are worse than others whom he
crusheth by signgil) judgments: the Jews had committed sins worse
than Sodom, for the confirmation oi' which we have God’s oath
zek. xvi. 48 ; and more b half t an Samaria, or the ten tribes
(ligadélpgie (ver  yet Godhgypared th; J ewp, though he desgtroyled
the omites. hat was t e reason, ut a ar er remnant o rig t-
g persons, Srpgre cgugters of golcidfgrapes, wer?) found aiéioéig titers.
ew in om sa.i.9. ew more rig teousinrn om a
dampild the fire and lirimstonie designed for that place, and a. “ rem-
nalpt of such indJudea” waskla bar to thgt {ilercen£>_Iss(;>fhanget§, which
ot erwise woul have uic consume t em. a t ere een ut
“ ten righteous in Soddin," Divine patience had still bound the arms
of Justice, that it should not have prepared its brimstone, notwith-
standing the clamor of the sins of the multitude. Judea was ripe
for the sickle, but God would put a lock upon the torrent of his
f Smith on the Creed. p. 404.

