506 UHARNOCK ON 'rrm .u'mrBU'r°ns.
judgments, that they should not flow down u n that wicked pl ~
to make them a desolation and a curse, as lg; as tender-hea;§
Josiah lived, “ who had humbled himself” at the threatening, and
wap? before the Lord (1 Kings, xxii. 19, 20g. Sometimes he beam
wit wicked men, that they might exercise t e patience of the saints
(Rev. xiv. 12): the whole time-of the “forbearance of antichrist” in
all his intrusions into the temple of God, invasions of the rights of
God, usurpations of the oiiice of Christ, and besmearing himself with
the blood of the saints, was to 've them an opportunity of patience.
God is patient towards the wicgled, that b their means he might try
the righteous. He burns not the wisp till he hath scoured his ves~
sels; nor lays by the hammer, till he hath formed some of his matter
into an excellent fashion. He useth the worst men as rods to correct
his people, before he swee s the twigs out of his house. God some-
times uses the thorns of the world, as a hedge to secure his church,
sometimes as instruments to try and exercise it. Howsoever he useth
them, whether for security or trial, he is patient to them for his
chu.rch’s advantage.
6. When men are not brought to repentance by his patience, he
doth longer exercise it, to manifest the equity of his future justice
upon them. As wisdom is justified by her obedient children, so is
glustice justified by .the rebels against patience; the contempt of the
tter is the justification of the former. The “a es were unto
God a sweet savor of Christ in them that peris ” as well as in
them that were saved by the aece tation of their messagp (2 Cor. ii.
15). Both are fragrant to God;   mercy is glorified y the one’s
acceptance of it, and his justice freed from any charge against it by
the other’s refusal. The cause of men’s ruin cannot be _laid upon
God, who provided means for their salvation, and solicited t eir
compliance with him. What reason can they have to charge the
Judge with any wrong to them, who reject t e tenders he makes,
and who hath orborne them with so muchpatience, when he might
have censured them by his righteous justice, upon the iirst crime
they committed, or the first refusal of his gracious offers? “ Quanta
Det magzls _girdhum tardum est tanto 'nw.gisju,stum.”' After the despis-
ing of patience, there can be no suspicion of an irregularity in the
acts of justice. Man hath no reason to fall foul in his charge upon
God, if he were punished for his own sin, considering the dignity
of the injured person, and the meanness of himself; the offender; but
his wrath is more justified when-it is poured out upon those whom
he hath endured with much longx-suffering. There is no plea against
the shooting of his arrows into t ose,‘for whom this voice hath been
loud, and his arms open for their return. As patience, while it is
exercised, is the silence of his justice, so when it is abused, it silenc-
eth men’s complaints against his justice. The “riches of his forbear-
ance” made way for the manifesting the “treasures of his wrath."
If God did but a little bear with the rnsolencies of men, and cut them'
off after two or three sins, he would not have opportunity to show
either the power of his patience, or that of his wrath; but when he
hath a right to punish for one sin, and yet bearswith them for many,
5 ° Miuuc. Felix, p. 41.

