ON sons rxrrssczz. 507
and they will not be reclaimed, the sinner is more inexcusable,
Divine justice lem chargeable, and his wrath more powerful. (Rom.
ix. 22), “What if God, willing to show his wrath, and to make his
wer known, endured with much long-suffering the vessels of wrath
giied for destruction?" The proper and imme iate end of his long-
suifering is to lead men to reipeutance; but after they have by their
obstinacy fitted themselves or destruction, he bears longer with
them, to “ magnify his wrath" more upon them; and if it is not the
gms operantils, -it is at least the jimls opmnls, where ,patienceis abused.
en are apt to complain of God, that he deals ardly with them;
the Israelites seem to charge God with too much severity, to cast
them. 05, when so many promises were made to the fathers for their
perpetuity and tplreservation, which is intimated, Hos. ii. 2. “ Plead
wit your mo er, plead :" by the double repetition of the word
“ plead ;” do not accuse me of - eing false or too rigorous, but accuse
your mother, your church, your magistracy, your ministry, for their
spiritual fornications which have provoked me; for their n~:1:s:,
intimating the greatness of their sins by the redu licatiou of the
word, “lest I strip her naked.” I have borne with her under many
provocations, and I have not yet taken away all her ornaments, or
said to her, according to the rule of divorce, Res tuas tibi habeto. God
answers their impudent cha.rge: “She is not my wife, nor am I her
husband ;” he doth not say Hrst, I am not her husband, but she is
not my wife; she nrst withdrew from her duty by breaking the
marriage covenant, and then I ceased to be her husband. No man
shall be condemned, but he shall be convinced of the due desert of
his sin, and the justice of God’s proceeding. God will lay open
men’s guilt, and repeat the measures of his patience to justif the
severity of his wrat (Hes. vii. 10), “ Sins wil testify to their face.”
What rs in its own nature a preparation for glory, men by their ob-
stinacy make a preparation for a. more in isputable punishment.
We see many evidences of God’s forbearance here, in sparing men
under those blasphemies which are audible, and those profane car-
riages which are visible, which would sufficiently justify an act of
severity; yet when rnen’s secret sins, both in heart and action, and the
vast multitude of them, far surmounting what can arrive to our knowl-
edge here, shall be discovered, how great a lustre will it add to God’s
bearing with them, and make his justice triumph without any rea»
sonable demur from the sinner himself! He is long-suffering here,
that his justice may be more rgblic hereafter. a
%e IV. For instruction. ow is this patience of God abused!
The Gentiles abused those testimonies of rt, which were written in
showers and fruitful seasons. No nation was ever stripped of it,
under the most provoking idolatries, till after multiplied spurns at it:
not a person amon us but hath been guilty of the abuse of it. How
have we contemned that which demands a reverence from us I How
have we requited Grod’s waitings with rebellions, while he hath con-
tinued urging and expecting our retuml Saul relented at David’s
forbearing to reven himself, when he had his prosecuting and in-
dustrious enem in Ixeis power. (1 Sam. xxiv. 17), “Thou art more
righteous than I; thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have re-

