508 cnmsocx on ram arrnmurns.
warded thee evil :” and shall we not relent at God’s wonderful long:
suifering, and silencing his anger so much? He could puff away
gig: lives, bu; he will not, and yet we endeavor to strip him of lna
ing, thoug we cannot.
1. Let us consider the ways, how slowness to anger is abused.
(L) It is abused by misinterpretations of it, when men slander his
patience to be only a carelessness and neglect of hiiiprovidence; as
Averroes argued om his slowness to anger, a to neglect of the
government of the lower world: or when men from his ong-suH`er-
mg charge him with impurity, as if his patience were a consent to
their crimes; and because he suffered them, without calling them to
account, he were one of their partisans, and as wicked as themselves
CPS. l. 21): “Because I ke t si ence, thou thoughtest I was altogether
such a one as thyselfl" His silence makes them conclude him to be
an abettor oi; and a* consort in their sins; and think him more
pleased with their iniquity than their obedience. Or when they will
infer from his forbearance a want of his omniscience; because he
igers their sins, they imagine he forgets them (Ps. x. 11): “He
said in his heart, God hath forgotten :” thinking his patience
proceeds not from the sweetness of his nature, but a weakness of his
mind. How base is it, instead of admitting him, to disparage him
for it; and because he stands in so advantageous a posture towards
us, not to own the choicest prerogatives of his_ Deity! This is to
make a perfection, so useful to us, to shadow and extinguish those
others, which are the prime flowers of his crown.
(2.) His patience is abused by continuing in a course of sin under
the influences of it. How much is it the practical language of men,
Come, let us commit this or that iniquity; since Divine patience
hath suffered worse than this at our hands l Nothing is remitted to
their sensual pleasures, and eagerness in them. How oiten did the
Israelites repeat their murmurings against him, as if they would put
his patience to the utmost proof, an see how far the line of it could
extendl They were no sooner satisfied in one thing, but they quar-
relled with him about another, as if he had no other attribute to put
in motion against them. They tempted him as oiten as he relieved
them, as though the declaration of his name to Moses (Exod. xxxiv.),
“to be a God ious, and long-sufering,” had been intended for no
other 1u‘poseIi!\1i;>a protection of them in their rebellions. Such a
sort 0? men the prophet speaks of; that were “settled in their lees,”
or dregs (Zeph. i. 12) :V they were congealed, and frozen in their suc-
cessful wickedness. Such an abuse of Divine patience is the very
dregls of sin; God chargeth it highly upon the Jews (Isa. lvii. 11):
“I ave held my peace, even of old, and thou fearest me not ;" my
silence made thee conddent, yea, impudent in th sin.
(3.) His patience is abused by repeating sin, diet God hath, by an
act of his patience, taken oif some affliction from men. As metals
melted in the fire remain fiuid under the operations of the names, yet
when removed from the fire, the quickly return to their former
hardness, and sometimes grow hardier than the were beibre; so men
who, in their afllictions, seem to be melted, like Ahab confess their
sins, lie prostrate before God, and seek him early; yet, if they be

