ON eorrs rsrmson. 509
brought hom under the power of their aiiilictions, they return to
their old nature, and are as stiff' against God, and resist the blows of
the Spirit as much as they did be ore. They think they have a new
stock of patience to sin upon. Pharaoh was somewhat thawed un-
der judgments, and frozen again under forbearance (Exod. ix. 27, 34).
Many will howl when God strikes them, and laugh at him when he
forbears them. Thus that patience which should melt us, doth often
harden us, which is not an effect natural to his patience, but natural
to our abusing corruption.
(4.) His patience is abused, by taking encouragement from it to
mount to greater degrees of sin. Because God is slow to anger, men
are more fierce in sin, and not only continue in their old rebellions,
but hea new upon them. If he spare them for three transgressio
they   commit four, as `is intimated in the first and secondlb?
Amos; “ Men’s hearts are fully set in them to do evil, because sen-
tence `nst an evil work is not speedily executed” (Eccles. viii. 11).
Theirahhlarts are more desperately bent; before they had some
waverings, and pull-backs, but after a fair sunshine of Divine pa-
tience, they entertain more unbridled resolutions, and pass forward
with more liberty and licentiousness. They make his long-suffering
subservient to t\u'n out all those little relentings and regrets the
had before, and banish all thoughts of barring out a temptation. Nb
encouragement is given to men by God’s patience, but they force it
by their presumption. They invert God’s order, and bind themselves
stronger to iniquity by that which should bind them faster to their
duty. A ha py escape at sea makes men o more confidently into
the deeps aigkrward. Thus we deal with god as debtors do with
good-natured creditors : because they do not dun them for what they
owe, they take encouragement to rim more upon the score, till the
sum amounts above their ability of pa ment.
But let it be considered, lst. That tliyis abuse of atience is a high
sin. As every act of forbearance obligeth us to dlhty, so every act
of it abused, mcreaseth our guilt. The more frequent its solicita-
tions of ushave been, the deeper aggravations our sin receives by it.
Every sin, after an act of Divine patience, contracts a blacker guilt.
The sparin us after the last sin we committed, was a superadded act
of long-suii§ering, and a laying out more of his riches upon us: and,
therefore, ever new act committed is a despite against greater riches
expended, andygreater cost upon us, and against his preserving us
from the hand o justice fbr the last trans ssion. It is disingenuous
not to have a due resentment of so mueiregoodness, and base to in-
jure him the more, because he doth not rig t himself Shall he re-
ceive the more wrongs from us, by how much the sweeter he is to
us? No man’s conscience but will tell him it is vile to prefer the
satisfaction of a sordid lust, before the counsel of a God of so graf
cious a disposition. The sweeter the nature, the fouler is the injury
that is done unto it. 2d. It is dangerous to abuse his patience.
Contempt of kindness is most irksome to an ingenuous spirit; and
he is worthy to have the arrows of God’s indignation lodged in his
heart, who despiseth the riches of his long-suifering,h For,
[1.] The time of patience will have an end.. ough his Spirit

