510 crmmoox oN 'nm urrnmurrs.
strives with man, et it shall “ not always strive” (Gen. vi. 8). Though
there be a time wherein Jerusalem might “know the things that con
cerned her peace,” yet there is another period wherein they should
be "‘ hid from her e es” (Luke xix. 43): °‘ O that thou hadst known
in this thy day I” §ations have their day, and persons have their
day; and the day of most persons is shorter than the day of nations.
Jerusalem had er day of forty years; but how many articular
persons were taken oil' before the last or middle hours ofp that day
were arrived! “Forty years was God grieved” with the generation
of the Israelites (Heb. iii. 11). One carcass dropped after another in
that limited time, and at the end not a_man but fell under the judi~
cial stroke, except Caleb and Joshua. One hundred and twenty
years was the term set to the mass of the old world, but not to every
man in the old world; some fell while the ark was reparin , as we
as the whole stock when the ark was completed. Thou h ie be pa»
tient with most, yet he is not in the same deglree with all; every sm-
ner hath his time of sinning, beyond which e shall proceed no fur~
ther, be his lusts never so impetuous, and his affections never so im-
perious. The time of his patience is, in Scripture, set forth some-
times by years; three years he came to find fruit on the fig-tree:
sometimes by datys; some men’s sins are sooner ripe, and fall. There
is a measure o sin iler.   13), which is set forth by the ephah
(Zech. v. 8), which, w en it is Blled, is sealed up, and a weight of
lead cast upon the mouth of it. When judgments are preparing,
once and twice the Lord is prevailed with by the intercession of the
prophet: the prepared grass-hoppers are~ not sent to devour, and the
'n led Hre is not blown u to consume (Amos, vii. 1-8). But at
last God takes the lumb-line, to suit and measure punishment.to
their sin, and would) not pass by them any more; and when their
sin was rips, represented by a “basket of summer-init,” God would
withhold is hand no longer, but brought such a day upon them,
wherein “ the songs of the Temple should be howlings, and dead
bodies be in every place” (Amos, viii. 2, 8). He la s by any further
thou hts of patience to speed their ruin. God hmlborne long with
the Iéraelites, and long it was before he gave them up. He would
iirst brake the “bow in Jezreel" (Hoe. i. 5); take away the strength
of the nation by the death of Zechariah, the last of Jehu’s race, which
introduced civil dissentions and ambitious murders, for the throne,
whereby in weakening one paart they weakened the whole; or, as
some think, alludin to Tig h Pilezar, who carried captive two
tribes and a half if this would not reclaim them, then follows
“ Lo-ruhamah, I will not have mercy,” I will sweep them out of tho
land (ver. 6). If they did notrepent, they shou d be “Lo-ammi'
giver. 9), “ You are not my people,’ and “I will not be your God.”
hey should be discovenanted, and stripped of all federal relation.
Here patience forever withdrew from them, and wrathfixl auger took
its place. And, for particular persons, the time of life, whether
shorter or longer, is the only time of long-suffering. It hath no other
stage than the present state of things to act upon; there is none else
to e expected after but giving account of w at hath been done in
the body, not of anything done after the soul is Bed from the body:

