on sons rxrmncm 511
the time of patience ends with the irst moment of the soul’s depar~
ture from the bod . , This time only is the “day of salvation ;” 6; e.
the day wherein god offers it, and the day wherein God waits for
our acceptance of it: it is at his pleasure to shorten orf lengthen our
day, not at ours; it is not our long-suffering, but his; he hath the
command of it. »
Rt] God hath wrath to punish, as well as patience to bear. He
ha a fury to revenge the outrages done to his meekness: when his
messages of peace, sent to reclaim men, are slighted, his sword shall
be whetted, and his instruments of war prepared (Hos. v. 3): “Blow
ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet 1neRamah.” As he deals
gently, like a father, so he can punish ea 'tally as a judge: though
e holds his peace for a lon time, yet at get he will go forth like a
mighty man, and stir up jesiousy, as a man of war, to cut in ieces
his enemies. It is not said he hath no anger, but that he is “ sihw to
anger,” but sharp in it: he hath a sword to cut, and a bow to shoot,
an arrows to pierce Ps.   13): though he be long drawing the
one out of its scabb and long fitting the other to his bow, yet,f
when they are ready, he strikes home, and hits the mark : thou h he
hath a time of patience, yet he hath also a “day of rebuke”?Hos.
v. 9); though patience overrules justice, by suspending it, et justice
will at last overrule patience, by an utter silencing it. God is Judge
of the whole earth to right men, yet he is no les Judge of the inju-'
ries he receives to right himself Though God awhile was pressed
with the murmurings of _ the Israelites, after their coming out of Egypt,
and seemed desirous to give them all satisfaction upon their unwor-'
thy complaints, yet, when they came to open hostility, in setting a'
go den calf in his throne, he commissions the “ Levites to kill-every'
man hi; brother and companion in the camp” (Exod. xxxii. 27): and-
how desirous soever he was to content them~bc,t`ore, the never mur-
mured afterwards but they severely smarted for it. When once he:
hat: begin to use his sword, he sticks it,u naked, that it might be
read ,' tl: use upon every occasion. Tho h he hath feet of lead, yet
he ham hands of iron. It was long thatuie suppyorted the peevish-‘
ne:-ian' theJews, but at last he captived them y the arms of thef
Beef   and laid them waste by the power of the Romans; He
planted, by the a ostles, churches in the east; and when his good~~
new and lon -suiiiiring prevailed not with them, he tore them up by
the roots. Vghat Christians are to be found in those once famous parts
of Asia but what are overgrown with much error and i orance?
~ [3,] The more his patience is abused, the sharper will ii; the wrath
he inflicts. As his wrath restrained makes his patience -long, so his
companions restrained will make his wrath severe; as he doth tran--
scend all creatures in the measures of the one, so he doth transcend
all creatures in the sharpness of the other. Christ is described with
“feet of brass," as if they burned in a furnace (Rev. i. 15), slow to move,
but heavy to crush, and hot to burn. His wrath loseth nothing
by delay ; it grows the fresher by sleeping, and strikes with greater
strength when it awakes: all the time men are abusing his patience,
God is whetting his sword, and the lo r it is ~whett` the sharper
will be the edge; the longer he is fetlisiing his blowiliie smarter it

