512 cnsnuocx ON rms: A'1'l‘RIBU'l’ES.
will be. The heavier the cannons are, the more diiiicultly are they
drawn to the besieged town; but, when arrived, they recompense
the slowness of their march by the fierceness of their battery. “Be-
cause I have purged thee," i. e. used means for th reformation, and
waited for it, “ and thou wast not urged, thou shalt not be purged
from thy filthiness any more, till I have caused my fury to rest upon
thee: I will not go back, neither will I spare; according to thy ways,
and accordin to thy doings, shall they judge thee" (Ezek. xxiv. 13,
14). God will spare as little then as he spared much before; his
wrath shall be as raging u n them as the sea of their wickedness
was within them. When éhfzere is a bank to forbid the irruption of
the streams, the waters swell; but when the bank is broke, or the
lock taken away, the rush with the greater violence, and ravage
more than they wouldy have done had t ey not met with a stop: t e
longer a stone is in falling, the more it bruiseth and grinds to pow-
der. There isa greater treasure of wrath laid up by the abuses of
patience: every sin must have a just recompense of reward; and
therefore every sin, in regard of its ag vations, must be more pun-
ished than a sin in the sin leness anfrgmplicity of its own nature.
As treasures of mercy are kept by God for us, “ he keeps mercy for
thousands ;” so are treasures of wrath kept by him to be expended,
and a time of expense there must be: patience will account to jus-
tice all the good ofiices it hath done the sinner, and demand to be
righted by justice; justice will take the account from the hands of
patience, and exact a recompense for every disinfgenuous injury of-
ered to it. When justice comes to arrest men or their debts, pa-
tience, mercy, and goodness, will step in as creditors, and clap their
actions upon them, which will make the condition so much more
deplorable.
~ ia] \Vhen he puts an end to his abused patience, his wrath will
m e quick and sure work. He that is “slow to ange1”\i7l'. be
swift in the execution of it. The departure of God from J<;m.-mein
is described with “ wings and wheels’ (Ezek. xi. 23; One c"1~e:-~ -if
his hand is irresistible; he that hath spent so muc time i:~_ \=~:iiung
needs but one minute to ruin; though it be long ere he dtaws his
sword out of his scabbard, yet, when once he doth it, he desprz:-:mth
men at a blow. Ephraim, or the ten tribes, had a long time ri' E;
tience and rosperity, but now shall a “month devour him wlh `
portion” (Eros. v. 7). One fatal month puts a period to the man(y
years’ acc and security of a sinful nation; his arrows wound su -
denly Ps. lxiv. 72; and while men are about to ill their bellies, he
casts t e fruits o his wrath upon them (Job, xx. 23), like thunder
out of a cloud, or a bullet out of a cannon, that strikes dead before it
isdieard. God deals with sinners as enemies do with a town, batter
it not b planted guns, but secretly undermines and blows up the
walls, whereby they involve the garrison in a sudden ruin, and carry
the town. God spared the Amalekites along time after the injury
committed inst the Israelites, in their passage out of Egypt to Ca-
naan; but mn he came to reckon with them, he would waste them
in a trice, and make an utter consumption of them (1 Sam. xv. 2, 3).
He describes himself by a “travailing woman." (Isa. xxiv. 14), that

