I
ON cons rxrrsncs. 513
h1\*~h borne long in her womb, and at last sends forth her birth with
BQOD cries. Though he hath held his peace, been still, and refrained
himsgfl yet, at last, he will destro and devour at once: the Nine-
vites, spared in the time of Jonah fhr their repentance, are, in nature,
threatened with a certain and total ruin, when God should come to
brin them to an account for his length and patience, so much abused
by tl§em. Though God endured the murmuring Israelites so long in
the wilderness, yet he paid them off at last, and took away the reb-
ek in his wrath: he uttered their sentence with an irreversible oath,
that “ none of them should enter into his rest;” and he did as surely
execute it as he had solemnly sworn it. `
[5.] Though he doth defer his visible wrath, yet that very delay
may be more dreadful than a quick unishment. He may forbear
striking, and give the reins to the hardness and corruption of men’s
hearts; he may suH`cr them to walk in their own counsels, without
any more striving with them, whereby they make themselves Htter
iiiel for his vengeance. This was the fate of Israel when they would
not hearken to his voice; he “gave them up to their own hearts’
lusts, and they walked in their own counsels” (Ps. lxxxi. 12).
Though his sparinrr them had the outward aspect of patience, it was
a wrathful one, and attended with spiritual Judgments; thus many
abusers of patience may still have their line lengthened, and the
candle of prosperity to shine upon their heads, t at they may in-
crease their sins, and be the 'fitter mark at last for his arrows; they
swim down the stream of their own sensuality with a deplorable se-
e\u°ity, till they fall into an unavoidable guli, where, at last, it will
be a great part of their hell to reflect on the length of Divine pa-
tience on earth, and their inexcusable abuse of it. e
2. It informs us of the reason why he lets the enemies of his
church oppress it, and defers his promise of the deliverance of it.
If he did punish them presently, his holiness and justice would be
glorified, but his power over himself in his patience would be ob-
scured. Well may the church be content to have a perfection of
God glorified, that is not like to receive any honor in another world
by any exercise of itself If it were not or this patience, he were
incapable to be the Governor of a sinful world; e might, without
it, be the Governor of an innocent world, but not of a criminal one;
he would he the destroyer of the world, but not the orderer and dis-
poser of the extravagancies and sinfulness of the worlcl. The in-
terest of his wisdom, in drawing good out of evil, would not be
served, if he were not clothed with this perfection as well as with
others. If he did presently destroy the enemies of his church upon
the first oppression, his wisdom in contriving, and his power in
accomplishing deliverance against the united powers of hell and
earth, would not be visible, no, nor that power in plreserving his
people unconsumed in the furnace of aiiliction. He ad not got so
great a name in the rescue of his Israel from Pharaoh, had he thun-
.ered the tyrant into destruction upon his 'first edicts against the
innocent. If he were not atient to the most violent of men, he
might seem to be cruel. I3ut when he offers peace to them un-
der their rebellions, waits that they may be members of his church,
vor.. rr.-33

