s
514 cnmxocx on 'rms Arrnmums.
rather than enemies to it, he frees himself from an such im
tation, 'even in the judgment of those that shall feel, most of  
wrath; it is this renders the equity of his justice unquestionable,
and the deliverance of his people righteous in the judgment of
those from whose fetters they are delivered. Christ reigns in the
midst of his enemies, to show his power over himself; as well as
over the heads of his enemies, to show his ower over his rc-
bels. And though he retards his promise, and suffers a great in-
terval of time between the publication and performance, sometimes
years, sometimes ages to pass away, and httlc appearance of any
reparation, to show himse f a God of truth; it is not that he hat
forgotten his word, or repents that ever he passed it, or sleeps in a
supine neglect of it: but that men might not perish, but bethink
themselves, and come as friends into his bosom, rather than be
crushed as enemies under his feet (2 Pet.   9); “ The Lord is not
slack concerning his (promise, but is long-suffering to us~ward, not
willing that any shoul perish, but that al should come to re nt-
ance.” Hereby hc; shiows, that he would be rather pleased withiethe
conversion than t e estruction, of men.
3. We see the reason why sin is suffered to remain in the regene-
rate; to show his patience towards his own; for since this attribute
hath no other place of appegaciance but in this world, God takes o
portunity to manifest it; use, at the close of the world, it W5
remain closed up in the Deity, without any further operation. As
God suffers a multitude of sins in the world, to evidence his ~
tience to the wicked, so he suffers great remainders of sin in  
people, to show his patience to the godly. His sparing mercy is ad-
mirable, before their conversion, but more admirable in bearing with
them after so high an obligation as the conferring upon them special
convertin e. »
Use 2. §)fgrcldcmfortt It is a vast comfort to any when God is paci.
fied towards them; but it is some comfort to all, that God is yet pa-
tient towards them, thoughbut very little to a refractory sinner.
His continued patience to all, speaks a possibility of the care of all,
wouldthey not stand against the way of their recovery. It is a
terror that God hath anger, but it is a mitigation of that terror that
God is slow to it; while his sword is in his sheath there is some
hopes to prevent the drawing of it: alas! if he were all fire and
sword upon sin, what would become of us? We should iind no-
thing else but overflowing deluies, or sweeping pestilences, or per-
petual tlashes of Sodom’s Ere an brimstone from eaven. He dooms
us not presently to execution, but gives us a long breathing time
after the crime, that by retiring hom our iniquities, and having re-
course to his mercy, he may be withheld forever from signing a war-
rant against us, and change his legal sentence into an evangelical
pardon. It is a special comfort to his people, that he is a “sanc-
tuary to them” (Ezek. xi. 16); a place of refuge, a lplaceof spiritual
communications; but it is some refreshment to al in this life, that
he is a defence to them: for so is his patience called (Numb. xiv.
9); “Their defence is departed from them ;” speaking to the
Israelites, that they should not be afraid of the Canaanites, for

