ox cons mrmxcn. 515
their defence is departed from them. God is no longer patient to
them, since their sins be full and ripe. Patience, as long as it lasts,
is a. temporary defence to those that are under the wing of it; but
to the believer it is a singular comfort; and God is called the “ God
of patience and consolation” in one breath (item. xv. 5); “ The God
of patience and consolation grant outobe li e-minded; all interpre-
ters understand it effectively. 'llhe God that inspires you with pa~
tience and cheers you with comfort, grant this to you. Wh may
it not,be undprstocpd formally, of the patielnce belonging to the na-
ture of God an though it be expresse in the way of petition
yet it might also be proposed as a pattern for imitation, and sd
suits very well to the ex ortation laid down (ver. 1), which was
to “bear with the infirmities of the weak,” which he presseth
them to (ver. 3) by the example of Christ; and (ver. 5) by the pa-
tience of God to them, and so they are very well linked together.
“God of platience and consolation’ may well be joined, since ga-
tience is t e first step of comfort to the poor creature. If it id
not administer some comfortable hopes to Adam, in the interval
between his fall and God’s coming to examine him, I am sure it
was the first discovery of any comfort to the creature, after the
sweeping the destroying deluge out of the world (gen. ix. 21);
after the “savor of Noah’s sacrifice,” representing t e great Sac-
rifice which was to be in the world, had ascended up to God
the return from him is a publication of his tbrbearing to punisli
any more in such a manner: and though he found man no bet-
ter than he was before, and the imaginations of men’s hearts as
evil as before the deluge, that he would not again smite every
living thing, as he ha done. This was the first ex ression of
comfort to Noah, after his exit from the ark; and declares no-
thing else but thi; plontinuancle ofidpatience to the new world
above what he ha s own to t e o .
1. It is a comfort, in that it is an argument of his grace to his peo-
ple. If he hath so rich a patience to exercise towards his enemies,
e hath a greater treasure to bestow upon his friends. Patience is
the first attribute which steps in for our salvation, and therefore
called “ salvation” (2 Pet. iii. 15). Something else is therefore built
u n it, and intended b it, to those that believe. Those two letters
oilnhis name, “a God keeping mercy tbr thousands, and forgiving
iniquity, transgressions an sin," follow the other letter of his long-
suiferipgtlint t}l:e proclamation _ §_E§x<;i1. txxxiv. 6, 7). lie is; slow_ to
anger ia e may e merci u a men may see an receive
their 1 ardon. If he be l~ong~suifering, in order to be a pardoning
God, Ee will not be wantinglin pardoning those who answer the de-
sign of his forbearance of t em. You would not have had sparing
mercy to improve, if God would have denied you saving mercy upon
the improvement of his sparing gloodness. fdhe halth so much re-
spect to his enemies that provoke im as to en ure t em with much
long-suffhring, he will surely be very: kind to those that obey him,
and conform tai his gill. If he hath much logg-suifelping to those
that are “iitte for estruction’ (Rom. ix. 22), e wil ave a much~
ness of mercy for those that are prepared for glory by faith and re-

