5513 cnmtocx ON 'rim .u'miBU'rEs.
pentance. It is but a natural conclusion a gracious soul may make,
-If God had not a mind to be a peased towards me, he would not
have had a mind to forbear me; gut since he hath forborne me, and
given me a heart to see, and answer the true end of that forbearance,
need not q_uestion, but that sparing mercy will end in saving, since
it finds that repentance springing up in me, which that patience con-
ducted me to.
2: His patience is a ground to trust in his promise. If his slow-
ness to anger be so great when his perecept is slighted, his readiness
to give what he hath promised will as great w en his promise is
beheved. If the provocations of them meet with such an unwill-
ingness to punish them, faith in him will meet with the choicest
embraces from him. He was more ready to make the promise of
redemption after man’s apostasy, than to execute the threatening of
the law. He doth still witness a greater willingness to give forth the
fruits of the promise, than to pour out the vials of his curses. His
slowness to anger is an evidence still, that he hath the same  
tion, which is no slight cordial to faith in his word. .
3. It is a comfort in intirmities. If he were not patient, he could
not bear with so many peevishnesses and weaknesses in the hearts
of his own. If he be atient to the gromer sins of his enemies, he
will be no less to the lighter infirmities of his people. When the
soul is a bruised reed, that can emit no sound at all, or one very
harsh and ungrateful, he doth not break it in plieces, and flinglit
away in disdain, but waits to see whether it wi fully answer is
pains, and be brought to a better frame and sweeter note. He brings
them not to account for every slip, but, “as a father, spares his son
that serves him" (Mal.   17), It is a comfort to us in our distracted
services; for were it not for this slowness to anger, he would stifle us
in the midst of our prayers, wherein there are as many foolish thoughts
to disgust him, as t ere are petitions to implore him. The patientest
angels would hardly be able to bear with the follies of good men in
acts of worship.
Use 3. For exhortation.
1. Meditate often on the patience of God. The devil labors for
nothing more than to deface in us the consideration and memory of
this perfection. He is an envious creature; and since it hath reached
out itself to us and not to him, he envies God the glory of it, and
man the advantage of it: but,God loves to have the volumes of it
studied, and daily turned over by us. We cannot without an inex-
cusable wilfulness miss the thoughts of it, since it is visible in every
bit of bread, and breath of air in ourselves, and all about us.
(lp The frequent consideration of his patience would render God
high y amiable to us. It is a more endearing argument than his mere
goodness; _his goodness to us as creatures, endowing us with such ex-
cellent faculties, furnishing us with such a commodious world, and
bestowing upon us so many attendants for our pleasure and service,
and giving us a lordship over his other works, deserves our affection:
but his atienceto us as sinners, after we have merited the greatest
wrath, shows him to be of a sweeter disposition than creating good-
nem to unoifending creatures; and, consequently, speaks a  

