ON Gon's rxrmscs. 517
love in him, and bespeaks a greater alfection from us. His creatin
goodness discovered the majesty of his Being, and the greatness 0%
is mind, but this the sweetness and tenderness of his nature. In
this patience he exceeds the mildness of all creatures to us; and
therefore should be enthroned in our affections above all other crea-
tures. The consideration of this would make us affect him for his
nature as well as for his benefits.
(2.) The consideration of his patience would make us frequent and
serious in the exercise of re entance. In its nature it leads to it, and
the consideration of it would engage us to it and melt us in the ex-
ercise of it. Could we deeply think of it without being touched with
a sense of the kindness of our forbearing Creditor and Governor?
Could we gaze upon it, nay, could we glance upon it, without relentp
ing at our offending one of so mild a nature, without being sensibl
affected, that he hath preserved us so long from being loaded with
those chains of darkness, under which the devils groan? This for-
bearance hath good reason to make sin and sinners ashamed. That
you are in being, is not for want of advantages enough in his hand
against you; many a forfeiture you have made, and many an en-
gagement you have broke; he hath scarce met with any ot er deal-
ing from us, than what had treachery in it. Whatsoever our sincerity
is, we have no reason to boast of it, when we consider what mixtures
there are in it, and what swarms of base motions taint it. Hath he
not lain pressed and groaning under our sins, as a “cart is pressed
with sheaves” (Amos, ii. 13), when one shake of himself; as Sampson,
mi ht have rid him of the burden, and dismissed us in his fury into
hed? If we should often ask our consciences why have we done
thus and thus against so mild a God, would not the refiection on it
put us to the blush? If men would consider, that such’a time they
provoked God to his face, and yet not have felt his sword; such a
time the blas hemed him, and made a reproach of his name, and
his thundier didp not stop their motion; such a time they fell into an
abominable brutishness, yet he kept the punishment of devils, the
unclean spirits, from reaching them; suc a time he bore an open
affront from them, when they scofied at his word, and he did not
send a destruction, and laugh at it: would not such a meditation
work some strange kind of relentings in men? What if we should
consider, that we cannot do a sinful act without the support of his
concurring Providence? We cannot see, hear, move, without his
concourse. All creatures we use for our necessity or pleasure, are
supported by him in the very act of assisting to pleasure us; and
when we abuse those creatures against him, which he sltpports for our
use, how great is his patience to bear with us, that he oth not anni-
hilate those creatures, or at least embitter their use! What issue
could reasonabl be expected from this consideration, but, “ O
wretched man that I am, to serve myself of God’s power to affront
him, and of his long-suffering to abuse him?" O infinite patience
to employ that power to preserve me, that might have been used
to punish mel He is my Creator, I could not have a being with-
out him, and yet I offend iml He is my Preserver, I cannot main-
tain' my being without him, and yet I affront himl Is this a

