I
518 cssasocx ON ms ATTRIBUTES.
worth requital of God Deut. xxxii. 6), “Do you thus requite the
Lordix would be the eart- breaking reflection. How would it
give men a fuller prospect of the depravation of their nature than
anything else; that their corruption should be so deep and strong,
that so much patience could not overcome itl It would certainly
make a man ashamed of his nature as well as his actions.
(3.) The consideration of his patience would make us resent more
the injuries done by others to God. A patient sufferer, though a
deserving sufferer, attracts the ity of men, that have a value for any
virtue, though clouded with a heap of vice. How much more should
we have a concern of God, who suffers so many abuses from others!
and be grieved, that so admirable a patience should be slighted by
men, who solely live by and under the daily influence of it! The
impression of this woul make us take God’s part, as it is usual with
men to take the part of good dispositions that lie under oppre ion.
(4.) It would make us patient under God’s hand. His slow ness to
anger and his forbearance is visible, in the very strokes we feel in
this life. We have no reason to murmur against him, who gives us
so little cause, and in the greatest afilictions gives us more occasion
of thankfulness than of repining. Did not slowness to the extremest
an er moderate every affliction, it had been a. scorpion instead of a
roi We have reason to bless Him, who, from his long-suifering,
sends temporal sufferings, where eternal are justly due. (Ezra, ix.
13), “Thou hast punished us less than our iniquities do deserve.”
His indulgences towards us have been more than our corrections, and
the lenqh of his patience hath exceeded the sharpness of his rod.
Upon t e account of his long-suffering, our mutimes against God
have as little to excuse them, as our sins against him have to deserve
his forbearance. The consideration of this would show us more rea-
son to re ine at our own repinings, than at any of his smarter deal-
ings; and the consideration of this would make us submissive under
the judgments we ex t. His undeserved patience hath been more
than our merited judigeriients can possibly be thought to be. If we
fear the removal of the gospel for a season, as we have reason to do,
we should rather bless him, that by his waiting patience, he hath
continued it so lon , than murmur, that he threatens to take it away
so late. He hath Tiorne with us many a year, since the light of it
was rekindled, when our ancestors had but six years’ of atience
between the rise of Edward the Sixth, and the ascent oi) Queen
Mary, to the crown.
2. Exhortation is to admire and stand astonished at his patience,
“and bless him for it.” If you should have dehled your neighbor’s
bed, or sullied his reputation, or rified his goods, would he have
withheld his vengeance, unless he had been too weak to execute it?
We have done worse to God than we can do to man, and yet he
draws not that sword of wr out of the scabbard of his patience,
to sheath it in our hearts. It is not so much a wonder that any
judgments are sent, as that there are no more, and sharper. That
the world shall be fired at last, is not a thing so strange, as that
tire doth not come down eve day upon some part of1t> Had the
disciples, that saw such excelllent patterns of mildness from their

