_oN sons PATIENCE. 519
Master, and were so often urged to learn of him that was lowly
and meek, the government of the world, it had been long since
turned into ashes, since they were too forward to desire him to open
his magazine of judgments, and kindle a fire to consume a Samaritan
village, for a slight aifront in comparison of what he received from
others, and atterwards from themselves in their forsaking of him
(Luke, ix. 52-54). We should admire and praise that here which
shall be praised in heaven; though patience shall cease as to its
exercise alter the consummation of the world, it shall not cease from
receiving the acknowledgments of what it did, when it traversed
the stage of this earth. If the name of God be glorified, and ac-
knowledged in heaven, no question but this will also; since long-
sutfering is one of his Divine titles, a letter in his name, as well as
“ merciful, and gracious, abundant in goodness and truth." And
there is good reason to think that the atience exercised towards
some, before converting grace was ordered) to seize upon them, will
bear a great part in the anthems of heaven. The greater his long-
suifering hat been to men, that lay covered with t eir own dung,
a long time before they were freed by grace from their filth; the
more admiringly and loudly they wil er up his mercy to them,
after they have passed the gulf, and see a dveserved hell at a distance
from them, and many in that place of torment who never had the
tastes of so much forbearance. If mere will be praised there, that
which began the alphabet of it, cannot lie forgot. If Paul s eak so
highly of it in a damping world, and under the pull-backs of a
"bod of death,” as he doth 1 Tim. i. 16, 17 : “For this cause I ob-
tainecfmerc ; that Christ might show forth all long-suffering. Now
unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be
honor, and glory, for ever and ever. Amen." No doubt, but he
will have a higher note for it, when he is surrounded with a hea-
venly flame, and freed from all remains of dulness. Shall it be
raised above, and have we no notes for it here below? Admire
Iéhrist, too, who sued out your reprieve upon the account of his merit.
As mercy acts not upon ang but in Christ, so neither had patience
borne with any but in hrist. The Gpronouneing the arrest of
judgment €Gen. viii. 21) was when “ od smelled a sweet savor
from Noahs sacrifice,” not from the beasts offered, but the anti-
pypical sacrifice rgpresented. That we may be raised to bless God
or it let us consi er
(1.5 The multitude of our Cprovocations. Though some have
blacker guilt than others, and eeiper stains, yet let none wipe his
mouth, but rather imagine himsel to have but little reason to bless
it. Are not all our offences as many as there have been minutes in
our lives? All the moments of our continuance in the world have
been moments of his atience and our ingratitude. Adam was
unished for one sin, liioses excluded Canaan for a passionate un~
lielievin word. Ananias and Sapphira lost their lives for one sin
against 'Sie Hol Ghost. One sin sullied the beauty of the world,
defaced the worlis of God, and cracked heaven and earth in pieces,
had not infinite satisfaction been proposed to the provoked ustice
by the Redeemer; and not one sin committed, but is of the same

