520 CHARNOCK ON 'rr-in A'1'rnmu'rm.
venomous nature. How many of those contradictions against him-
-self hath he borne with! Had we been only unplroitable to him,
his forbearance of us had been miraculous; but ow much doth it
exceed a miracle, and lift itself above the meanness of a conjunction
with such an e ithet, since we have been provoking! Had there
been no more than our impudent or careless rushings into his pres-
ence in worship ; had they been only sins of omission, and sins of
ignorance, it had been enough to have put a stand to any further
operations of this perfection towards us. But add to those, sins of
commission, sins against knowledge, sins against spiritual motions,
sins against repxeated resolutions, and pressing admonitions, the
neglects of all t e opportunities of repentance; dgut them all toge-
ther, and we can as little recount them, as the san on the sea-shore.
But what, do I only speak of particular men? View the whole
world, and if our own iniquities render it an amazing patience, what a
mighty supply will be made to it in all the numerous and weighty
provocations, under which he hath continued the world for so many
revolutions of years and ages! Have not all those pressed into
his presence with a loud cry, and demanded a sentence from justice?
yet hath not the Judge been overcome by the importunity of our
sins? Were the devils punished for one sin, a proud thought, and
that not committed against the blood of Christ, as we have done
numberless times; yet hath not God made us partakers in their
punis ent, though we have exceeded them in t e quality of their
sin. admirab e lpatience! that would bear with me und so
many, while he wou d not bear with the sinning angels for one.‘
(2.) Consider how mean things we are, who have provok im.
What is man but a vile thing, that a God, abounding with all
riches, should take care of so abject a thing, much more to bear so
many affronts from such a drop of matter, such a nothing creature!
That he that hath anger at his command, as well as pigy, should endure
such a detestable, eformed creature by sin, to y in his face!
“ What is man, that thou art mindful of him ?" (Ps. viii.) suse,
miserable, incurable man, derived from a word, that signifies to be
incurably sick. Man is “Adam,” earth from his earthly ori `nal,
and “ Enoch,” incurable from his corruption. Is it not wortily to
be admired, that a God of infinite glory should wait on such Adams,
worms of earth, and be, as it were, a servant, and attendant to such
Enochs, sickly and peevish creatures?
(3.) Consider who it is that is thus patient. He it is that, with
one breath, could tiu'n heaven and earth, and all the inhabitants of
both, into nothing; that could, bty one thunderbolt, have razed up
the foundations of a cursed worl . He that wants not instruments
without to ruin us, that can arm our own consciences against us, and
can drown us in our own phlegm; and, by taking out one pin from
our bodies, cause the whole frame to fall asunder. Besides, it is a God
that, while he suffers the sinner, hates the sin more than all the holy
men upon earth, or angels in heaven, can do; so that his patience
for a minute transcends the patience of all creatures, from the crea-
tion to the dissolution of the world: because it is the patience of a
* Pont. Part I. p. 42.

