on Gon‘s PATIENCE. 521
God, iniinitelly more sensible to the cursed quality of sin, and intl-
nitely more etesting it.
(-1.) 'Consider how long he hath forborne his anger, A repiieve
for a veek or a month is accounted a great favor in civ` tates; the
civil law enacts, “That if the emperor commanded a man to be con-
demned, the execution was to be deferred' thirty days: because in
that time the prince’s anger might be apipeasedifj But how great a
favor is it to be reprieve thirty years or man offences, every one
of which deserves death more at the hands of god than any offence
can, at the hands of man ! Paul was, according to the common
account, but about thirty years old at his conversion; and how
much doth he elevate Divine long-suffering! Certainly there are
many who have more reason, as having larger quantities of patience
cut out to them, who have lived to see their own gray hairs in a
rebellious osture against God, before grace brought them to a. sur-
render. lge were all condemned in the womb; our lives were
forfeited the first moment of our breath, but patience hath stopped
the arrest; the merciful Creditor deserves to have acknowledgment
from us, who hath laid by his bond so many years without putting
it in suit against us. Many of your companions in sin have perhaps
been surprised long ago, and haled to an eternal prison; nothing is
remaining of them but their dust, and the time is not yet come for
your funeral. Let it be considered, that that God that would not
wait upon the fallen angels one instant after their sin, nor give them
a moment's space of repentance, hath prolonged the life of many a
sinner in the world to mnumerable moments, to 420,000 minutes in
the space of a year, to 8,400,000 minutes in the space of twenty
ears. The damned in hell would think it a great kindness to have
but a year’s, month’s, nay, day’s respite, as a space to repent in.
(5.) Consider also, how many have been taken away under
shorter measures of patience: some have been struck into a hell of
misery, while thou remainest upon _an earth of forbearance. In a
lague, the destroying angel hath hewed down others, and passed
by us; the arrows have flew about our heads, passed over us, and
stuck in the heart of a neighbor. How man rich men, how many
of our friends and familiars, have been seized? b death since the be-
' ning of the year, when they least thought oiy it, and imagined it
gidfrom them! Have you not known some of your acquaintance
snatched away in the height of a crime? Was not the same wrath
due to you as well as to them! And had it not been as dreadful
for you to be so surprised by Him as it was for them? Why should
he take a less sturdy sinner out of th company, and let thee re-
main still upon the earth? If God hady dealt so with you, how had
you been cut off, not only from the enjoyment of this life, but the
opes of a better! And if God had made such_a providence bene-
ficial for reclaiming you, how much reason have you to acknowledge
him! He that hath had least patience, hath cause to admire; but
those that have more, ought to exceed others in blessing him for it.
If God had put an end to your natlual life before you had made pro-
vision for eternal, how deplorable would your condition have been!
- eta uh. ix. rms. 416, P. zo.

