522 ' CHARNOCK ON THE ATTRIBUTES.
Consider also, whoever have been sinners formerly of a deeper note;
mi ht not God have struck a man in the embraces of his harlots,
and choked him in the moment of his excessive and intemperatc
healths, or on the sudden have spurted fire and brimstone into a
blas hemer’s mouth? What if God had snatched you away, when
youlhad been sleeping in some great iniquity, or sent you while
urning in lust to the 'fire it merited? Might he not have cracked
the string that linked your souls to your bodies, in the last sickness
ypu had And what then had become of you? What could have
en expected to succeed your impenitent state in this world, but
howlings in another? but e reprieved you upon your petitions, or
the solicitations of your friends; and have you not broke your word
with him? Have your hearts been steadfast; hath he not yet
waited, expecting w en you would put your vows and resolutions
into execution? What need had he to cry out to any so loud and so
long, O you fools, “ how long will you love foolishness?" €'rov. i.
22), when he might have ceased his crying to?you, and have y your
death prevented your many neglects of him Did he. do all this
that an of us ht add new sins to our old; or rather, that we
should hless hirlrlsgor his forbearance, comply with the end of it in
reforming om' lives, and having recourse to his mercy?
3. Exhortion; therefore presume not upon his patience. The ex-
ercise of it is not eternal; you are at present under his patience;
yet, while you are unconverted, you are also under his anger (Ps.
vii. 11), “ God is angry with the wicked every day.” You know
not how soon his anger may turn his patience aside, and step before
it. It may be his sword is drawn out of his scabbard, his arrows
may be settled in his bow; and perhaps there is but a little time be-
fore you may feel the edge of the one or the point of the other: and
then there will be no more time for atience in God to us, or petition
from us to him. If we repent here he will pardon us. If we defer
repentance, and die without it, he will have no longer mercy to pan
don, nor patience to bear. What is there in our power but the
present? the future time we cannot command, the past time we can-
not recall ; squander not then the present away. T e time will come
when “ time shall be no more,” and then long-suffering shall be no
more. Will you neglect the time, wherein patience acts, and vainly
hope for a time beyond the resolves of patience? Will you spend
that in vain, which goodness hath allotted you for other purposes?
What an estimate will you make of a little forbearance to res ite
death, when you are gasping under the stroke of its arrows! l:l)ow
much would you value some few days of those many years you now
triiie away! Can any think God will be always at an expense
with them in vain, that he will have such riches trampled under
their feet, and so _ many editions of his patience be made waste
paper? Do.you know how few sands are yet to run in your glass?
Are you sure that He that waits to-day, wil wait as well to-morrow?
How can you tell, but that God that is slow to anger to-day, may be
swift to it the next? Jerusalem had but a day of peace, and the
most careless sinner hath no more. When their day was done, they
were destroyed by famine, pestilence, or sword, or led into a doleful

