ON sons rwrmxom. 523
captiviay. Did God make our lives so uncertain, and the duration
of his orbearance unknown to us, that we should live in a lazy
neglect of his glory, and. our own happiness? If you should have
more atience in regard of your lives, do you know whether you
shall liiave the effectual offers of grace? As your lives depend upon
his will, so'your conversion depends solely u on his grace. There
have been many examples of those miserable wretches, that have
been left to a reprobate sense, after they have a long time abused
Divine forbearance. Though he waits, yet he “binds u sin.” (Hos.
  12), “ The sin of Ephraim is bound up,” as bond; are bound
up by a creditor till a fit opportunity: when God comes to put the
bon in suit, it will be too late to wish for that atience we have so
scornfully despised. Consider therefore the end of patience. The
patience of God considered in itself, without that which it tends to,
affords very little comfort; it is but a step to pardoning mercy, and
it may be without it, and often is. Many have been reprieved that
were never forgiven; hell is full of those that had patience as well
as we, but not one that accepted ardoning grace went within the
gates of it. Patience leaves men, when their sms have ripened them
or hell; but pardoning ace never leaves men till it hath con-
ducted them to heaven. §is atience speaks him placable, but doth
not a&s\u°e us that he is actually appeased. Men ma hope .that a
long-suffering tends to a ardon, but cannot be assu f a pardon,
but b something else shove mere lon -suifering. Rest not then
uipon glare patience, but consider the end of it; it is not that any
s ould sin more freely, but repent more meltin ly; it is not to spirit
rebellion, but give a mercifu stop to it. Why should any be so
ambitious of their ruin, as to constrain to ruin them against the
inclinations of his sweet disposition
4. The fo\u'th exhortation is, Let us imitate God’s patience in our
own to others. He is unlike God that is hurried, with an unruly
impetus, to punish others for wronging him. The consideration of
Divine patience should make us square oiuselves according to that
pattern. God hath exercised a long-suffering from the fall of Adam
to this minute on innumerable subjects, and shall we be transported
with desire of revenge upon a sin le injury? If God were not
“slow to wrath,” a sinful world had ieen long ago torn up from the
foundation. And if revenge should be exercised by all men against
their enemies, what man should have been alive, since there is not a
man without an enemy? If every map were like Saul, breathing
out threatenings, the world would not only be an aceldema, but a
desert. How distant are they from the nature of God, who are in a
Hame upon every slight provocation from a sense of some feeble and
imaginary honor, that must bloody their ord for a trifle, and write
their revenge in wounds and death! &1en God hath his glory
every day bcspattered, yet he keeps his sword in his sheath; w at a
woe wo d it be to the world,i he drew it upon every affrontl
This is to be like brutes, dogs, or ti ers, that suar , bite, and devour,
upon every slight occasion: but togbe patient is to be `vine, and to
show ourselves acquainted with the disposition of od “Be you
therefore perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect’ att. v. 48):

